Angkor Wat - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

For the American thrash metal band, see Angkor Wat (band).


Angkor Wat



Front side of the main complex












Location in Cambodia






Geography


Coordinates
13°24′45″N 103°52′0″E﻿ / ﻿13.41250°N 103.86667°E﻿ / 13.41250; 103.86667Coordinates: 13°24′45″N 103°52′0″E﻿ / ﻿13.41250°N 103.86667°E﻿ / 13.41250; 103.86667


Country
Cambodia


Province
Siem Reap


Locale
Angkor


Elevation
65 m (213 ft)


Culture


Sanctum
Vishnu


Architecture


Architecture
Khmer (Angkor Wat style)


History


Date built
12th century


Creator
started by Suryavarman II completed by Jayavarman VII






UNESCO World Heritage Site



Official name
Angkor


Type
Cultural


Criteria
i, ii, iii, iv


Designated
1992 (16th session)


Reference no.
668


Region
Asia and the Pacific











This article contains Khmer text. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Khmer script.





This article contains Indic text. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks or boxes, misplaced vowels or missing conjuncts instead of Indic text.


Angkor Wat (Khmer: អង្គរវត្ត or "Capital Temple") is a temple complex in Cambodia and the largest religious monument in the world,[1] on a site measuring 162.6 hectares (1,626,000 m2; 402 acres).[2] It was originally constructed as a Hindu temple of god Vishnu for the Khmer Empire, gradually transforming into a Buddhist temple towards the end of the 12th century.[3] It was built by the Khmer King Suryavarman II[4] in the early 12th century in Yaśodharapura (Khmer: យសោធរបុរៈ, present-day Angkor), the capital of the Khmer Empire, as his state temple and eventual mausoleum. Breaking from the Shaiva tradition of previous kings, Angkor Wat was instead dedicated to Vishnu. As the best-preserved temple at the site, it is the only one to have remained a significant religious centre since its foundation. The temple is at the top of the high classical style of Khmer architecture. It has become a symbol of Cambodia,[5] appearing on its national flag, and it is the country's prime attraction for visitors.[6]
Angkor Wat combines two basic plans of Khmer temple architecture: the temple-mountain and the later galleried temple. It is designed to represent Mount Meru, home of the devas in Hindu mythology: within a moat and an outer wall 3.6 kilometres (2.2 mi) long are three rectangular galleries, each raised above the next. At the centre of the temple stands a quincunx of towers. Unlike most Angkorian temples, Angkor Wat is oriented to the west; scholars are divided as to the significance of this. The temple is admired for the grandeur and harmony of the architecture, its extensive bas-reliefs, and for the numerous devatas adorning its walls.



Contents


1 Etymology
2 History
3 Architecture

3.1 Site and plan
3.2 Style
3.3 Features

3.3.1 Outer enclosure
3.3.2 Central structure
3.3.3 Decoration


3.4 Construction techniques


4 Angkor Wat today

4.1 Restoration and conservation
4.2 Tourism


5 Gallery
6 References
7 Bibliography
8 External links



Etymology[edit]
The modern name, Angkor Wat, means "Temple City" or "City of Temples" in Khmer; Angkor, meaning "city" or "capital city", is a vernacular form of the word nokor (នគរ), which comes from the Sanskrit word nagara (Devanāgarī: नगर).[7] Wat is the Khmer word for "temple grounds", also derived from Sanskrit vāṭa (Devanāgarī: वाट), meaning "enclosure".[8]
The original name of the temple was Vrah Viṣṇuloka (Sanskrit) or Brah Bisnulōk (Local variant) which means the sacred dwelling of Vishnu.
History[edit]




King Suryavarman II, the builder of Angkor Wat


Angkor Wat lies 5.5 kilometres (3.4 mi) north of the modern town of Siem Reap, and a short distance south and slightly east of the previous capital, which was centred at Baphuon. In an area of Cambodia where there is an important group of ancient structures, it is the southernmost of Angkor's main sites.
According to legend, the construction of Angkor Wat was ordered by Indra to serve as a palace for his son Precha Ket Mealea.[9] According to the 13th-century Chinese traveller Zhou Daguan, some believed that the temple was constructed in a single night by a divine architect.[10]
The initial design and construction of the temple took place in the first half of the 12th century, during the reign of Suryavarman II (ruled 1113 – c. 1150). Dedicated to Vishnu, it was built as the king's state temple and capital city. As neither the foundation stela nor any contemporary inscriptions referring to the temple have been found, its original name is unknown, but it may have been known as "Varah Vishnu-lok" after the presiding deity. Work seems to have ended shortly after the king's death, leaving some of the bas-relief decoration unfinished.[11] In 1177, approximately 27 years after the death of Suryavarman II, Angkor was sacked by the Chams, the traditional enemies of the Khmer.[12] Thereafter the empire was restored by a new king, Jayavarman VII, who established a new capital and state temple (Angkor Thom and the Bayon respectively) a few kilometres to the north.
Towards the end of the 12th century, Angkor Wat gradually transformed from a Hindu centre of worship to Buddhism, which continues to the present day.[3] Angkor Wat is unusual among the Angkor temples in that although it was somewhat neglected after the 16th century it was never completely abandoned, its preservation being due in part to the fact that its moat also provided some protection from encroachment by the jungle.[13]
One of the first Western visitors to the temple was António da Madalena, a Portuguese monk who visited in 1586 and said that it "is of such extraordinary construction that it is not possible to describe it with a pen, particularly since it is like no other building in the world. It has towers and decoration and all the refinements which the human genius can conceive of."[14]
By the 17th century, Angkor Wat was not completely abandoned and functioned as a Buddhist temple. Fourteen inscriptions dated from the 17th century discovered in Angkor area testify to Japanese Buddhist pilgrims that had established small settlements alongside Khmer locals.[15] At that time, the temple was thought by the Japanese visitors as the famed Jetavana garden of the Buddha, which originally located in the kingdom of Magadha, India.[16] The best-known inscription tells of Ukondafu Kazufusa, who celebrated the Khmer New Year at Angkor Wat in 1632.[17]




Facade of Angkor Wat, a drawing by Henri Mouhot, c. 1860



Sketch of Angkor Wat, a drawing by Louis Delaporte, c. 1880



In the mid-19th century, the temple was visited by the French naturalist and explorer Henri Mouhot, who popularised the site in the West through the publication of travel notes, in which he wrote:

"One of these temples—a rival to that of Solomon, and erected by some ancient Michelangelo—might take an honorable place beside our most beautiful buildings. It is grander than anything left to us by Greece or Rome, and presents a sad contrast to the state of barbarism in which the nation is now plunged."[18]

Mouhot, like other early Western visitors, found it difficult to believe that the Khmers could have built the temple and mistakenly dated it to around the same era as Rome. The true history of Angkor Wat was pieced together only from stylistic and epigraphic evidence accumulated during the subsequent clearing and restoration work carried out across the whole Angkor site. There were no ordinary dwellings or houses or other signs of settlement, including cooking utensils, weapons, or items of clothing usually found at ancient sites. Instead there is the evidence of the monuments themselves.[19]
Angkor Wat required considerable restoration in the 20th century, mainly the removal of accumulated earth and vegetation.[20] Work was interrupted by the Cambodian Civil War and Khmer Rouge control of the country during the 1970s and 1980s, but relatively little damage was done during this period. Camping Khmer Rouge forces used whatever wood remained in the building structures for firewood, a pavilion was ruined by a stray American shell, and a shoot-out between Khmer Rouge and Vietnamese forces put a few bullet holes in a bas relief. Far more damage was done after the wars, by art thieves working out of Thailand, which, in the late 1980s and early 1990s, claimed almost every head that could be lopped off the structures, including reconstructions.[21]
The temple is a powerful symbol of Cambodia, and is a source of great national pride that has factored into Cambodia's diplomatic relations with France, the United States and its neighbour Thailand. A depiction of Angkor Wat has been a part of Cambodian national flags since the introduction of the first version circa 1863.[22] From a larger historical and even transcultural perspective, however, the temple of Angkor Wat did not become a symbol of national pride sui generis but had been inscribed into a larger politico-cultural process of French-colonial heritage production in which the original temple site was presented in French colonial and universal exhibitions in Paris and Marseille between 1889 and 1937.[23] Angkor Wat's aesthetics were also on display in the plaster cast museum of Louis Delaporte called musée Indo-chinois which existed in the Parisian Trocadero Palace from c.1880 to the mid-1920s.[24]
The splendid artistic legacy of Angkor Wat and other Khmer monuments in the Angkor region led directly to France adopting Cambodia as a protectorate on 11 August 1863 and invading Siam to take control of the ruins. This quickly led to Cambodia reclaiming lands in the northwestern corner of the country that had been under Siamese (Thai) control since AD 1351 (Manich Jumsai 2001), or by some accounts, AD 1431.[25] Cambodia gained independence from France on 9 November 1953 and has controlled Angkor Wat since that time. It is safe to say that from the colonial period onwards until the site's nomination as UNESCO World Heritage in 1992, this specific temple of Angkor Wat was instrumental in the formation of the modern and gradually globalised concept of built cultural heritage.[26]
In December 2015, it was announced that a research team from University of Sydney had found a previously unseen ensemble of buried towers built and demolished during the construction of Angkor Wat, as well as massive structure of unknown purpose on its south side and wooden fortifications. The findings also include evidence of low-density residential occupation in the region, with a road grid, ponds and mounds. These indicate that the temple precinct, bounded by moat and wall, may not have been used exclusively by the priestly elite, as was previously thought. The team used LiDAR, ground-penetrating radar and targeted excavation to map Angkor Wat.[27]
Architecture[edit]


Plan of Angkor Wat


General plan of Angkor Wat with central structure in the middle



Detailed plan of the central structure



Site and plan[edit]




Aerial view of Angkor Wat


Angkor Wat, located at 13°24′45″N 103°52′0″E﻿ / ﻿13.41250°N 103.86667°E﻿ / 13.41250; 103.86667, is a unique combination of the temple mountain (the standard design for the empire's state temples) and the later plan of concentric galleries. The temple is a representation of Mount Meru, the home of the gods: the central quincunx of towers symbolises the five peaks of the mountain, and the walls and moat symbolise the surrounding mountain ranges and ocean.[28] Access to the upper areas of the temple was progressively more exclusive, with the laity being admitted only to the lowest level.[29]
Unlike most Khmer temples, Angkor Wat is oriented to the west rather than the east. This has led many (including Maurice Glaize and George Coedès) to conclude that Suryavarman intended it to serve as his funerary temple.[30][31] Further evidence for this view is provided by the bas-reliefs, which proceed in a counter-clockwise direction—prasavya in Hindu terminology—as this is the reverse of the normal order. Rituals take place in reverse order during Brahminic funeral services.[20] The archaeologist Charles Higham also describes a container which may have been a funerary jar which was recovered from the central tower.[32] It has been nominated by some as the greatest expenditure of energy on the disposal of a corpse.[33] Freeman and Jacques, however, note that several other temples of Angkor depart from the typical eastern orientation, and suggest that Angkor Wat's alignment was due to its dedication to Vishnu, who was associated with the west.[28]
A further interpretation of Angkor Wat has been proposed by Eleanor Mannikka. Drawing on the temple's alignment and dimensions, and on the content and arrangement of the bas-reliefs, she argues that the structure represents a claimed new era of peace under King Suryavarman II: "as the measurements of solar and lunar time cycles were built into the sacred space of Angkor Wat, this divine mandate to rule was anchored to consecrated chambers and corridors meant to perpetuate the king's power and to honour and placate the deities manifest in the heavens above."[34][35] Mannikka's suggestions have been received with a mixture of interest and scepticism in academic circles.[32] She distances herself from the speculations of others, such as Graham Hancock, that Angkor Wat is part of a representation of the constellation Draco.[36]
Style[edit]




Angkor Wat as viewed from the side


Angkor Wat is the prime example of the classical style of Khmer architecture—the Angkor Wat style—to which it has given its name. By the 12th century Khmer architects had become skilled and confident in the use of sandstone (rather than brick or laterite) as the main building material. Most of the visible areas are of sandstone blocks, while laterite was used for the outer wall and for hidden structural parts. The binding agent used to join the blocks is yet to be identified, although natural resins or slaked lime has been suggested.[37]
The temple has drawn praise above all for the harmony of its design. According to Maurice Glaize, a mid-20th-century conservator of Angkor, the temple "attains a classic perfection by the restrained monumentality of its finely balanced elements and the precise arrangement of its proportions. It is a work of power, unity and style."[38]
Architecturally, the elements characteristic of the style include: the ogival, redented towers shaped like lotus buds; half-galleries to broaden passageways; axial galleries connecting enclosures; and the cruciform terraces which appear along the main axis of the temple. Typical decorative elements are devatas (or apsaras), bas-reliefs, and on pediments extensive garlands and narrative scenes. The statuary of Angkor Wat is considered conservative, being more static and less graceful than earlier work.[39] Other elements of the design have been destroyed by looting and the passage of time, including gilded stucco on the towers, gilding on some figures on the bas-reliefs, and wooden ceiling panels and doors.[40]
Features[edit]
Outer enclosure[edit]




View of the west wall of the outer enclosure of Angkor Wat






Northern library


The outer wall, 1,024 m (3,360 ft) by 802 m (2,631 ft) and 4.5 m (15 ft) high, is surrounded by a 30 m (98 ft) apron of open ground and a moat 190 m (620 ft) wide. Access to the temple is by an earth bank to the east and a sandstone causeway to the west; the latter, the main entrance, is a later addition, possibly replacing a wooden bridge.[41] There are gopuras at each of the cardinal points; the western is by far the largest and has three ruined towers. Glaize notes that this gopura both hides and echoes the form of the temple proper.[42] Under the southern tower is a statue of Vishnu, known as Ta Reach, which may originally have occupied the temple's central shrine.[41] Galleries run between the towers and as far as two further entrances on either side of the gopura often referred to as "elephant gates", as they are large enough to admit those animals. These galleries have square pillars on the outer (west) side and a closed wall on the inner (east) side. The ceiling between the pillars is decorated with lotus rosettes; the west face of the wall with dancing figures; and the east face of the wall with balustered windows, dancing male figures on prancing animals, and devatas, including (south of the entrance) the only one in the temple to be showing her teeth.
The outer wall encloses a space of 820,000 square metres (203 acres), which besides the temple proper was originally occupied by the city and, to the north of the temple, the royal palace. Like all secular buildings of Angkor, these were built of perishable materials rather than of stone, so nothing remains of them except the outlines of some of the streets.[43] Most of the area is now covered by forest. A 350 m (1,150 ft) causeway connects the western gopura to the temple proper, with naga balustrades and six sets of steps leading down to the city on either side. Each side also features a library with entrances at each cardinal point, in front of the third set of stairs from the entrance, and a pond between the library and the temple itself. The ponds are later additions to the design, as is the cruciform terrace guarded by lions connecting the causeway to the central structure.[43]
Central structure[edit]




The middle tower of Angkor Wat symbolizes the sacred mountain, mount Meru.






Aerial view of the central structure; in front of the central structure lies the cruciform terrace.


The temple stands on a terrace raised higher than the city. It is made of three rectangular galleries rising to a central tower, each level higher than the last. Mannikka interprets these galleries as being dedicated to the king, Brahma, the moon, and Vishnu.[11] Each gallery has a gopura at each of the points, and the two inner galleries each have towers at their corners, forming a quincunx with the central tower. Because the temple faces west, the features are all set back towards the east, leaving more space to be filled in each enclosure and gallery on the west side; for the same reason the west-facing steps are shallower than those on the other sides.




A tower of Angkor Wat


The outer gallery measures 187 m (614 ft) by 215 m (705 ft), with pavilions rather than towers at the corners. The gallery is open to the outside of the temple, with columned half-galleries extending and buttressing the structure. Connecting the outer gallery to the second enclosure on the west side is a cruciform cloister called Preah Poan (the "Hall of a Thousand Gods"). Buddha images were left in the cloister by pilgrims over the centuries, although most have now been removed. This area has many inscriptions relating the good deeds of pilgrims, most written in Khmer but others in Burmese and Japanese. The four small courtyards marked out by the cloister may originally have been filled with water.[44] North and south of the cloister are libraries.
Beyond, the second and inner galleries are connected to each other and to two flanking libraries by another cruciform terrace, again a later addition. From the second level upwards, devatas abound on the walls, singly or in groups of up to four. The second-level enclosure is 100 m (330 ft) by 115 m (377 ft), and may originally have been flooded to represent the ocean around Mount Meru.[45] Three sets of steps on each side lead up to the corner towers and gopuras of the inner gallery. The very steep stairways represent the difficulty of ascending to the kingdom of the gods.[46] This inner gallery, called the Bakan, is a 60 m (200 ft) square with axial galleries connecting each gopura with the central shrine, and subsidiary shrines located below the corner towers. The roofings of the galleries are decorated with the motif of the body of a snake ending in the heads of lions or garudas. Carved lintels and pediments decorate the entrances to the galleries and to the shrines. The tower above the central shrine rises 43 m (141 ft) to a height of 65 m (213 ft) above the ground; unlike those of previous temple mountains, the central tower is raised above the surrounding four.[47] The shrine itself, originally occupied by a statue of Vishnu and open on each side, was walled in when the temple was converted to Theravada Buddhism, the new walls featuring standing Buddhas. In 1934, the conservator George Trouvé excavated the pit beneath the central shrine: filled with sand and water it had already been robbed of its treasure, but he did find a sacred foundation deposit of gold leaf two metres above ground level.[48]
Decoration[edit]




The bas-relief of the Churning of the Sea of Milk shows Vishnu in the centre, his turtle Avatar Kurma below, asuras and devas to left and right, and apsaras and Indra above.






Devatas are characteristic of the Angkor Wat style.


Integrated with the architecture of the building, and one of the causes for its fame is Angkor Wat's extensive decoration, which predominantly takes the form of bas-relief friezes. The inner walls of the outer gallery bear a series of large-scale scenes mainly depicting episodes from the Hindu epics the Ramayana and the Mahabharata. Higham has called these, "the greatest known linear arrangement of stone carving".[49] From the north-west corner anti-clockwise, the western gallery shows the Battle of Lanka (from the Ramayana, in which Rama defeats Ravana) and the Battle of Kurukshetra (from the Mahabharata, showing the mutual annihilation of the Kaurava and Pandava clans). On the southern gallery follow the only historical scene, a procession of Suryavarman II, then the 32 hells and 37 heavens of Hinduism.




Decoration on the corner


On the eastern gallery is one of the most celebrated scenes, the Churning of the Sea of Milk, showing 92[50] asuras and 88 devas using the serpent Vasuki to churn the sea under Vishnu's direction (Mannikka counts only 91 asuras, and explains the asymmetrical numbers as representing the number of days from the winter solstice to the spring equinox, and from the equinox to the summer solstice).[51] It is followed by Vishnu defeating asuras (a 16th-century addition). The northern gallery shows Krishna's victory over Bana (where according to Glaize, "The workmanship is at its worst"),[52] and a battle between the Hindu gods and asuras. The north-west and south-west corner pavilions both feature much smaller-scale scenes, some unidentified but most from the Ramayana or the life of Krishna.
Angkor Wat is decorated with depictions of apsaras and devata; there are more than 1,796 depictions of devata in the present research inventory.[53] Angkor Wat architects employed small apsara images (30 cm (12 in)–40 cm (16 in)) as decorative motifs on pillars and walls. They incorporated larger devata images (all full-body portraits measuring approximately 95 cm (37 in)–110 cm (43 in)) more prominently at every level of the temple from the entry pavilion to the tops of the high towers. In 1927, Sappho Marchal published a study cataloging the remarkable diversity of their hair, headdresses, garments, stance, jewellery and decorative flowers, which Marchal concluded were based on actual practices of the Angkor period.[54]


Bas-reliefs of Angkor Wat













 













 













 













 






Construction techniques[edit]




Corridor


The stones, as smooth as polished marble, were laid without mortar with very tight joints that are sometimes hard to find. The blocks were held together by mortise and tenon joints in some cases, while in others they used dovetails and gravity. The blocks were presumably put in place by a combination of elephants, coir ropes, pulleys and bamboo scaffolding. Henri Mouhot noted that most of the blocks had holes 2.5 cm (0.98 in) in diameter and 3 cm (1.2 in) deep, with more holes on the larger blocks. Some scholars have suggested that these were used to join them together with iron rods, but others claim they were used to hold temporary pegs to help manoeuvre them into place.
The monument was made out of 5 million to 10 million sandstone blocks with a maximum weight of 1.5 tons each.[55] In fact, the entire city of Angkor used up far greater amounts of stone than all the Egyptian pyramids combined, and occupied an area significantly greater than modern-day Paris. Moreover, unlike the Egyptian pyramids which use limestone quarried barely 0.5 km (0.31 mi) away all the time, the entire city of Angkor was built with sandstone quarried 40 km (25 mi) (or more) away.[56] This sandstone had to be transported from Mount Kulen, a quarry approximately 25 miles (40 km) to the northeast. The route has been suggested to span 35 kilometres (22 mi) along a canal towards Tonlé Sap lake, another 35 kilometres (22 mi) crossing the lake, and finally 15 kilometres (9.3 mi) against the current along Siem Reap River, making a total journey of 90 kilometres (56 mi). However, Etsuo Uchida and Ichita Shimoda of Waseda University in Tokyo, Japanese have discovered in 2011 a shorter 35-kilometre (22 mi) canal connecting Mount Kulen and Angkor Wat using satellite imagery. The two believe that the Khmer used this route instead.[57]
Virtually all of its surfaces, columns, lintels and even roofs are carved. There are miles of reliefs illustrating scenes from Indian literature including unicorns, griffins, winged dragons pulling chariots as well as warriors following an elephant-mounted leader and celestial dancing girls with elaborate hair styles. The gallery wall alone is decorated with almost 1,000 square metres of bas reliefs. Holes on some of the Angkor walls indicate that they may have been decorated with bronze sheets. These were highly prized in ancient times and were a prime target for robbers. While excavating Khajuraho, Alex Evans, a stonemason and sculptor, recreated a stone sculpture under 4 feet (1.2 m), this took about 60 days to carve.[58] Roger Hopkins and Mark Lehner also conducted experiments to quarry limestone which took 12 quarrymen 22 days to quarry about 400 tons of stone.[59] The labour force to quarry, transport, carve and install so much sandstone must have run into the thousands including many highly skilled artisans. The skills required to carve these sculptures were developed hundreds of years earlier, as demonstrated by some artefacts that have been dated to the seventh century, before the Khmer came to power.[19][33]
Angkor Wat today[edit]
Restoration and conservation[edit]


Play media


World Monuments Fund video on conservation of Angkor Wat


As with most other ancient temples in Cambodia, Angkor Wat has faced extensive damage and deterioration by a combination of plant overgrowth, fungi, ground movements, war damage and theft. The war damage to Angkor Wat's temples however has been very limited, compared to the rest of Cambodia's temple ruins, and it has also received the most attentive restoration.[21]




Bullet holes left by a shoot-out between the Khmer Rouge and Vietnamese forces at Angkor Wat.


The restoration of Angkor Wat in the modern era began with the establishment of the Conservation d'Angkor (Angkor Conservancy) by the École française d'Extrême-Orient (EFEO) in 1908; before that date, activities at the site were primarily concerned with exploration.[60][61] The Conservation d'Angkor was responsible for the research, conservation, and restoration activities carried out at Angkor until the early 1970s,[62] and a major restoration of Angkor was undertaken in the 1960s.[63] However, work on Angkor was abandoned during the Khmer Rouge era and the Conservation d'Angkor was disbanded in 1975.[64] Between 1986 and 1992, the Archaeological Survey of India carried out restoration work on the temple,[65] as France did not recognise the Cambodian government at the time. Criticism has been raised about both the early French restoration attempts and particularly the later Indian work, with concerns over damage done to the stone surface by the use of chemicals and cement.[21][66][67]
In 1992, following an appeal for help by Norodom Sihanouk, Angkor Wat was listed in UNESCO's World Heritage in Danger (later removed in 2004) and World Heritage Site together with an appeal by UNESCO to the international community to save Angkor.[68][69] Zoning of the area was set up to protect the Angkor site in 1994,[70] APSARA was established in 1995 to protect and manage the area, and a law to protect Cambodian heritage was passed in 1996.[71][72] A number of countries such as France, Japan and China are currently involved in various Angkor Wat conservation projects. The German Apsara Conservation Project (GACP) is working to protect the devatas, and other bas-reliefs which decorate the temple, from damage. The organisation's survey found that around 20% of the devatas were in very poor condition, mainly because of natural erosion and deterioration of the stone but in part also due to earlier restoration efforts.[73] Other work involves the repair of collapsed sections of the structure, and prevention of further collapse: the west facade of the upper level, for example, has been buttressed by scaffolding since 2002,[74] while a Japanese team completed restoration of the north library of the outer enclosure in 2005.[75] World Monuments Fund began conservation work on the Churning of the Sea of Milk Gallery in 2008 after several years of studies on its condition. The project restored the traditional Khmer roofing system and removed cement used in earlier restoration attempts that had resulted in salts entering the structure behind the bas-relief, discoloring and damaging the sculpted surfaces. The main phase of work ended in 2012, with the final component being the installation of finials on the roof of the gallery in 2013.




The restored head of a naga beside an unrestored lion at the start of the causeway leading to the entrance of Angkor Wat. The contrast of restored and unrestored figures is deliberate. The major restoration of the causeway was first initiated in the 1960s by the French.


Microbial biofilms have been found degrading sandstone at Angkor Wat, Preah Khan, and the Bayon and West Prasat in Angkor. The dehydration- and radiation-resistant filamentous cyanobacteria can produce organic acids that degrade the stone. A dark filamentous fungus was found in internal and external Preah Khan samples, while the alga Trentepohlia was found only in samples taken from external, pink-stained stone at Preah Khan.[76] Replicas were also made to replace some of the lost or damaged sculptures.[77]
Tourism[edit]
Since the 1990s, Angkor Wat has become a major tourist destination. In 1993, there were only 7,650 visitors to the site;[78] by 2004, government figures show that 561,000 foreign visitors had arrived in Siem Reap province that year, approximately 50% of all foreign tourists in Cambodia.[79] The number reached over a million in 2007,[80] and over two million by 2012.[81] Most visited Angkor Wat, which received over two million foreign tourists in 2013.[82] The site has been managed by the private SOKIMEX group since 1990, which rented it from the Cambodian government. The influx of tourists has so far caused relatively little damage, other than some graffiti; ropes and wooden steps have been introduced to protect the bas-reliefs and floors, respectively. Tourism has also provided some additional funds for maintenance—as of 2000 approximately 28% of ticket revenues across the whole Angkor site was spent on the temples—although most work is carried out by teams sponsored by foreign governments rather than by the Cambodian authorities.[83]
Since Angkor Wat has seen significant growth in tourism throughout the years, UNESCO and its International Co-ordinating Committee for the Safeguarding and Development of the Historic Site of Angkor (ICC), in association with representatives from the Royal Government and APSARA, organised seminars to discuss the concept of "cultural tourism".[84] Wanting to avoid commercial and mass tourism, the seminars emphasised the importance of providing high quality accommodation and services in order for the Cambodian government to benefit economically, while also incorporating the richness of Cambodian culture.[84] In 2001, this incentive resulted in the concept of the "Angkor Tourist City" which would be developed with regard to traditional Khmer architecture, contain leisure and tourist facilities, and provide luxurious hotels capable of accommodating large numbers of tourists.[84]
The prospect of developing such large tourist accommodations has encountered concerns from both APSARA and the ICC, claiming that previous tourism developments in the area have neglected construction regulations and more of these projects have the potential to damage landscape features.[84] Also, the large scale of these projects have begun to threaten the quality of the nearby town's water, sewage, and electricity systems.[84] It has been noted that such high frequency of tourism and growing demand for quality accommodations in the area, such as the development of a large highway, has had a direct effect on the underground water table, subsequently straining the structural stability of the temples at Angkor Wat.[84] Locals of Siem Reap have also voiced concern that the charm and atmosphere of their town have been compromised in order to entertain tourism.[84] Since this local atmosphere is the key component to projects like Angkor Tourist City, the local officials continue to discuss how to successfully incorporate future tourism without sacrificing local values and culture.[84]
At the ASEAN Tourism Forum 2012, it was agreed that Borobudur and Angkor Wat would become sister sites and the provinces sister provinces.[85]
Gallery[edit]
































































Statue inside the temple complex





References[edit]


^ "What the world's largest Hindu temple complex can teach India's size-obsessed politicians". 
^ "Largest religious structure". Guinness World Records. Retrieved 29 April 2016. 
^ a b Ashley M. Richter (8 September 2009). "Recycling Monuments: The Hinduism/Buddhism Switch at Angkor". CyArk. Retrieved 7 June 2015. 
^ Higham, C. (2014). Early Mainland Southeast Asia. Bangkok: River Books Co., Ltd. pp. 372, 378–379. ISBN 978-616-7339-44-3. 
^ "Government ::Cambodia". CIA World Factbook. 
^ "Cambodia's Angkor Wat Breaking Records for Visitors Again | News from Tourism Cambodia". Tourism of Cambodia. 
^ Chuon Nath Khmer Dictionary (1966, Buddhist Institute, Phnom Penh)
^ Cambodian-English Dictionary by Robert K. Headley, Kylin Chhor, Lam Kheng Lim, Lim Hak Kheang, and Chen Chun (1977, Catholic University Press)
^ J. Hackin; Clayment Huart; Raymonde Linossier; Raymonde Linossier; H. de Wilman Grabowska; Charles-Henri Marchal; Henri Maspero; Serge Eliseev (1932). Asiatic Mythology:A Detailed Description and Explanation of the Mythologies of All the Great Nations of Asia. p. 194. 
^ daguan Zhou (2007). A Record of Cambodia: The Land and Its People. Translated by Peter Harris. Silkworm Books. 
^ a b "Angkor Wat, 1113–1150". The Huntington Archive of Buddhist and Related Art. College of the Arts, The Ohio State University. Retrieved 27 April 2008. 
^ Coedès, George (1968). Walter F. Vella, ed. The Indianized States of Southeast Asia. trans.Susan Brown Cowing. University of Hawaii Press. p. 164. ISBN 978-0-8248-0368-1. 
^ Glaize, The Monuments of the Angkor Group p. 59.
^ Higham, The Civilization of Angkor pp. 1–2.
^ Masako Fukawa; Stan Fukawa (6 Nov 2014). "Japanese Diaspora - Cambodia". Discover Nikkei. Retrieved 18 October 2015. 
^ Abdoul-Carime Nasir. "Au-dela du plan Japonais du XVII siècle d'Angkor Vat, (A XVII century Japanese map of Angkor Wat)" (PDF) (in French). Retrieved 18 October 2015. 
^ "History of Cambodia, Post-Angkor Era (1431 - present day)". Cambodia Travel. Retrieved 18 October 2015. 
^ Quoted in Brief Presentation by Venerable Vodano Sophan Seng
^ a b Time Life Lost Civilizations series: Southeast Asia: A Past Regained (1995). p.67–99
^ a b Glaize p. 59.
^ a b c Russell Ciochon & Jamie James (14 October 1989). "The Battle of Angkor Wat". New Scientist. pp. 52–57. Retrieved 22 November 2015. 
^ Flags of the World, Cambodian Flag History
^ Falser, Michael (2011). Krishna and the Plaster Cast. Translating the Cambodian Temple of Angkor Wat in the French Colonial Period.
^ Falser, Michael (2013). From Gaillon to Sanchi, from Vézelay to Angkor Wat. The Musée Indo-Chinois in Paris: A Transcultural Perspective on Architectural Museums..
^ Cambodge: The Cultivation of a Nation, 1860–1945 by Penny Edwards. 2007. ISBN 978-0-8248-2923-0
^ Falser, Michael: Clearing the Path towards Civilization - 150 Years of "Saving Angkor". In: Michael Falser (ed.) Cultural Heritage as Civilizing Mission. From Decay to Recovery. Springer: Heidelberg, New York, pp. 279–346.
^ "Recent research has transformed archaeologists' understanding of Angkor Wat and its surroundings". University of Sydney. 9 December 2015. Retrieved 10 December 2015. 
^ a b Freeman and Jacques p. 48.
^ Glaize p. 62.
^ Coedès, George (1968). Walter F. Vella, ed. The Indianized States of Southeast Asia. trans.Susan Brown Cowing. University of Hawaii Press. p. 162. ISBN 978-0-8248-0368-1. 
^ The diplomatic envoy Zhou Da Guan sent by Emperor Temür Khan to Angkor in 1295 reported that the head of state was buried in a tower after his death, and he referred to Angkor Wat as a mausoleum
^ a b Higham, The Civilization of Angkor p. 118.
^ a b Scarre, Chris editor "The Seventy Wonders of the Ancient World", p. 81–85 (1999) Thames & Hudson, London
^ Mannikka, Eleanor. Angkor Wat, 1113–1150. (This page does not cite an author's name.)
^ Stencel, Robert, Fred Gifford, and Eleanor Moron. "Astronomy and Cosmology at Angkor Wat." Science 193 (1976): 281–287. (Mannikka, née Moron)
^ Transcript of Atlantis Reborn, broadcast BBC2 4 November 1999.
^ German Apsara Conservation Project Building Techniques, p. 5.
^ Glaize p. 25.
^ APSARA authority, Angkor Vat Style
^ Freeman and Jacques p. 29.
^ a b Freeman and Jacques p. 49.
^ Glaize p. 61.
^ a b Freeman and Jacques p. 50.
^ Glaize p. 63.
^ Ray, Lonely Planet guide to Cambodia p. 195.
^ Ray p. 199.
^ Briggs p. 199.
^ Glaize p. 65.
^ Higham, Early Cultures of Mainland Southeast Asia p. 318.
^ Glaize
^ Described in Michael Buckley, The Churning of the Ocean of Milk
^ Glaize p. 69.
^ Angkor Wat devata inventory - February 2010 Archived 23 April 2010 at the Wayback Machine.
^ Sappho Marchal, Khmer Costumes and Ornaments of the Devatas of Angkor Wat.
^ Ghose, Tia (31 October 2012). "Mystery of Angkor Wat Temple's Huge Stones Solved". livescience.com. 
^ "Lost City of Angkor Wat". National Geographic. 
^ Uchida, Etsuo; Shimoda, Ichita (2013). "Quarries and transportation routes of Angkor monument sandstone blocks". Journal of Archaeological Science. 40 (2): 1158–1164. doi:10.1016/j.jas.2012.09.036. ISSN 0305-4403. 
^ "Lost Worlds of the Kama Sutra" History channel
^ Lehner, Mark The Complete Pyramids, London: Thames and Hudson (1997)p. 202–225 ISBN 0-500-05084-8.
^ "Considerations for the Conservation and Presentation of the. Historic City of Angkor" (PDF). World Monuments Fund. p. 65. Archived from the original (PDF) on 16 May 2011. 
^ "The Siem Reap Centre, Cambodia". EFEO. 
^ "The Modern Period: The creation of the Angkor Conservation". APSARA Authority. 
^ Cambodia. Lonely Planet. 2010. p. 157. ISBN 978-1-74179-457-1. 
^ Kapila D. Silva; Neel Kamal Chapagain, eds. (2013). Asian Heritage Management: Contexts, Concerns, and Prospects. Routledge. pp. 220–221. ISBN 978-0-415-52054-6. 
^ "Activities Abroad#Cambodia". Archaeological Survey of India. 
^ Phillip Shenon (21 June 1992). "Washing Buddha's Face". New York Times. 
^ Kapila D. Silva; Neel Kamal Chapagain, eds. (2013). Asian Heritage Management: Contexts, Concerns, and Prospects. Routledge. p. 223. ISBN 978-0-415-52054-6. 
^ Michael Falser (ed.). Cultural Heritage as Civilizing Mission: From Decay to Recovery. Springer International. p. 253. ISBN 978-3-319-13638-7. 
^ Albert Mumma; Susan Smith. Poverty Alleviation and Environmental Law. ElgarOnline. p. 290. ISBN 978-1-78100-329-9. 
^ "Royal Decree establishing Protected Cultural Zones". APSARA. 
^ Yorke M. Rowan; Uzi Baram (2004). Marketing Heritage: Archaeology and the Consumption of the Past. AltaMira Press. p. 123. ISBN 978-0-7591-0342-9. 
^ Hing Thoraxy. "Achievement of "APSARA". Archived from the original on 3 March 2001. 
^ German Apsara Conservation Project Archived 5 February 2005 at the Wayback Machine., Conservation, Risk Map, p. 2.
^ "Infrastructures in Angkor Park". Yashodhara no. 6: January – June 2002. APSARA Authority. Archived from the original on 26 May 2012. Retrieved 25 April 2008. 
^ "The Completion of the Restoration Work of the Northern Library of Angkor Wat". APSARA Authority. 3 June 2005. Retrieved 25 April 2008. 
^ Gaylarde CC; Rodríguez CH; Navarro-Noya YE; Ortega-Morales BO (Feb 2012). "Microbial biofilms on the sandstone monuments of the Angkor Wat Complex, Cambodia". Current Microbiology. 64 (2): 85–92. doi:10.1007/s00284-011-0034-y. PMID 22006074. 
^ Guy De Launey (21 August 2012). "Restoring ancient monuments at Cambodia's Angkor Wat". BBC. 
^ Justine Smith (25 February 2007). "Tourist invasion threatens to ruin glories of Angkor Wat". The Observer. 
^ "Executive Summary from Jan–Dec 2005". Tourism of Cambodia. Statistics & Tourism Information Department, Ministry of Tourism of Cambodia. Archived from the original on 13 April 2008. Retrieved 25 April 2008. 
^ "Tourism Statistics: Annual Report" (PDF). Ministry of Tourism. p. 60. 
^ "Tourism Annual Report 2012" (PDF). Ministry of Tourism. 
^ "Ticket sales at Angkor Wat exceed 2 million", The Phnom Penh Post, 21 January 2015 
^ Tales of Asia, Preserving Angkor: Interview with Ang Choulean (13 October 2000)
^ a b c d e f g h Winter, Tim (2007). "Rethinking tourism in asia". Annals of Tourism Research. 34: 27. doi:10.1016/j.annals.2006.06.004. 
^ "Borobudur, Angkor Wat to become sister sites". 13 January 2012. 


Bibliography[edit]


Cambodia portal
Buddhism portal
Hinduism portal
Architecture portal



Albanese, Marilia (2006). The Treasures of Angkor (Paperback). Vercelli: White Star Publishers. ISBN 88-544-0117-X. 
Briggs, Lawrence Robert (1951, reprinted 1999). The Ancient Khmer Empire. White Lotus. ISBN 974-8434-93-1.
Forbes, Andrew; Henley, David (2011). Angkor, Eighth Wonder of the World. Chiang Mai: Cognoscenti Books. ASIN: B0085RYW0O
Freeman, Michael and Jacques, Claude (1999). Ancient Angkor. River Books. ISBN 0-8348-0426-3.
Higham, Charles (2001). The Civilization of Angkor. Phoenix. ISBN 1-84212-584-2.
Higham, Charles (2003). Early Cultures of Mainland Southeast Asia. Art Media Resources. ISBN 1-58886-028-0.
Hing Thoraxy. Achievement of "APSARA": Problems and Resolutions in the Management of the Angkor Area.
Jessup, Helen Ibbitson; Brukoff, Barry (2011). Temples of Cambodia - The Heart of Angkor (Hardback). Bangkok: River Books. ISBN 978-616-7339-10-8. 
Petrotchenko, Michel (2011). Focusing on the Angkor Temples: The Guidebook, 383 pages, Amarin Printing and Publishing, 2nd edition, ISBN 978-616-305-096-0
Ray, Nick (2002). Lonely Planet guide to Cambodia (4th edition). ISBN 1-74059-111-9.

External links[edit]

 Geographic data related to Angkor Wat at OpenStreetMap




Wikimedia Commons has media related to:
Angkor Wat (category)






Wikivoyage has a travel guide for Angkor Archaeological Park.



Buckley, Michael (1998). Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos Handbook. Avalon Travel Publications. Online excerpt The Churning of the Ocean of Milk retrieved 25 July 2005.
Glaize, Maurice (2003 edition of an English translation of the 1993 French fourth edition). The Monuments of the Angkor Group. Retrieved 14 July 2005.
University of Applied Sciences Cologne. German Apsara Conservation Project Retrieved 2 May 2010.
University of Heidelberg, Germany, Chair of Global Art History, Project (Michael Falser): Heritage as a Transcultural Concept – Angkor Wat from an Object of Colonial Archaeology to a Contemporary Global Icon [1]
BBC Horizon (4 November 1999). Atlantis Reborn (script). Broadcast BBC2 4 November 1999, retrieved 25 July 2005.
Angkor Wat and Angkor photo gallery by Jaroslav Poncar May 2010
Angkor digital media archive – Photos, laser scans, panoramas of Angkor Wat's Western Causeway and Banteay Kdei from a CyArk/Sophia University/University of California partnership.
BBC: Map reveals ancient urban sprawl August 2007
Guide to the Angkor Monuments – PDF Downloadable English translation of Maurice Glaize's 1944 guide
Inventory of Angkor Wat devata (sacred Khmer women) February 2010
Laser technology reveals lost city around Angkor Wat June 2013
Roland Fletcher, director of the Greater Angkor Project, lectures on "LiDAR, Water and the Demise of Greater Angkor" in November, 2013
Voice of Angkor, an Angkor Temples Guide







v
t
e


Angkorian sites








Angkorian sites in Cambodia



Angkor







Ak Yum
Angkor Wat
Baksei Chamkrong
Banteay Kdei
Banteay Samré
Banteay Srei
Phnom Dei
Bat Chum
Chau Say Tevoda
East Baray
East Mebon
Kbal Spean
Krol Ko
Neak Pean
Phnom Bakheng
Phnom Bok
Phnom Krom
Phnom Kulen
Prasat Kravan
Preah Khan
Pre Rup
Spean Thma
Srah Srang
Ta Keo
Ta Nei
Ta Prohm
Ta Som
Thommanon
West Baray
West Mebon
Yasodharapura





Angkor Thom



Angkor Thom
Baphuon
The Bayon
The Khleangs
Mangalartha
Phimeanakas
Prasat Suor Prat
Preah Palilay
Preah Pithu
Terrace of the Elephants
Terrace of the Leper King





Roluos



Roluos
Bakong
Lolei
Preah Ko








Elsewhere



Ba Phnom
Banteay Chhmar
Banteay Prei Nokor
Beng Mealea
Koh Ker
Kuhak Nokor
Phnom Banan
Phnom Bayangkao
Phnom Chhnok
Phnom Chiso
Preah Khan Kompong Svay
Preah Vihear
Sambor Prei Kuk
Tonle Bati
Wat Nokor













Angkorian sites in Thailand



Isan




Khorat Plateau



Ban Anan
Ban Bu
Ban Chan
Ban Chang Pi
Ban Plai
Ban Pluang
Ban Samor
Ban Sanom
Chom Phra
Don Tuan
Huai Thap Than
Khok Prasat
Ku Ka Sing
Ku San Tarat
Ku Suan Tang
Kuti Ruesi Ban Muang Khok
Kuti Ruesi Ban Nong Bua Rai
Muang Khaek
Muang Tum
Nang Ram
Nong Plong
Nong Ta Plaeng
Phimai
Phanom Wan
Phanom Rung
Phum Pon
Pueai Noi
Prang Goo
Prang Phom ma Tat
Ta Khwai
Ta Leng
Ta Muan
Ta Muan Tod
Ta Muen Thom
Tra Piang Tia
Ta Tom
Thamor
Sikhoraphum
Wat Chao Chan
Wat Dong Muang Tei
Wat Kampang Lang
Wat Prang Thong
Wat Sa Kampaeng Noi
Wat Sa Kampaeng Yai
Yai Ngao






Sakonnakhon Plateau



Ban Panna
Choeng Chum
Dum
Narai Cheng Weng
Phu Pek








Elsewhere



Khao Lon
Khao Noi
Mueang Sing
Prang Khaek
Prang Sam Yod
San Pra Kan
Sdok Kok Thom
Sri Tep historical park













Angkorian sites in Laos






Oum Moung
Wat Phou
Rueang Hin













Disputed Angkorian sites






Cambodian–Thai border stand-off















v
t
e


Siem Reap Province




Capital city: Siem Reap



Districts



Angkor Chum District
Angkor Thom District
Banteay Srei District
Chi Kraeng District
Puok Thala District
Kralanh District
Prasat Bakong District
Siem Reap District
Sout Nikom District
Srei Snam District
Svay Leu District
Varin District








Geography



Siem Reap River
Tonlé Sap





Angkor Sites



Angkor Thom
Angkor Wat
Banteay Srei
Baphuon
Bayon
Ta Prohm












v
t
e


Protected areas of Cambodia



National Parks



Botum Sakor
Kep
Kirirom
Phnom Kulen
Preah Monivong
Ream
Virachey





Nature reserves



Ang Trapaing Thmor
Angkor Wat
Banteay Chhmar
Beng Per
Boeng Tonle Chhmar
Central Cardamom Mountains
Dong Peng
Kulen Promtep
Lomphat
Mondulkiri
Peam Krasop
Phnom Aural
Phnom Nam Lyr
Phnom Prich
Phnom Sankos
Preah Vihear Temple
Preah Vihear
Prek Toal
Roneam Daun Sam
Samlaut
Siem Pang
Snoul
Stung Sen
Tonlé Sap












v
t
e


Hinduism topics






Glossary





Philosophy




Concepts



Brahman
Om
Ishvara
Atman
Maya
Karma
Samsara


Purusharthas

Dharma
Artha
Kama
Moksha




Niti

Ahimsa
Asteya
Aparigraha
Brahmacharya
Satya
Dāna
Damah
Dayā
Akrodha







Schools



Astika: Samkhya
Yoga
Nyaya
Vaisheshika
Mimamsa
Vedanta

Dvaita
Advaita
Vishishtadvaita


Nastika: Charvaka











Texts




Classification



Śruti
Smriti





Vedas







Rigveda
Yajurveda
Samaveda
Atharvaveda





Divisions



Samhita
Brahmana
Aranyaka
Upanishad





Upanishads



Aitareya
Kaushitaki
Brihadaranyaka
Isha
Taittiriya
Katha
Maitri
Shvetashvatara
Chandogya
Kena
Mundaka
Mandukya
Prashna








Upavedas



Ayurveda
Dhanurveda
Gandharvaveda
Sthapatyaveda





Vedanga



Shiksha
Chandas
Vyakarana
Nirukta
Kalpa
Jyotisha





Other



Bhagavad Gita
Agamas
Itihasas

Ramayana
Mahabharata


Puranas
Minor Upanishads
Artha Shastra
Dharma Shastra

Manusmriti
Nāradasmṛti
Yājñavalkya Smṛti


Sutras
Stotras
Subhashita
Tantras
Yoga Vasistha
Yoga Sutras of Patanjali








Deities



Trimurti

Brahma
Vishnu
Shiva


Ishvara
Devi
Deva
Saraswati
Lakshmi
Parvati
Shakti
Durga
Kali
Ganesha
Kartikeya
Rama
Krishna
Hanuman
Prajapati
Rudra
Indra
Agni
Dyaus
Bhumi
Varuna
Vayu





Practices




Worship



Temple
Murti
Puja
Bhakti
Japa
Bhajana
Naivedhya
Yajna
Homa
Tapa
Dhyana
Tirthadana





Sanskaras



Garbhadhana
Pumsavana
Simantonayana
Jatakarma
Namakarana
Nishkramana
Annaprashana
Chudakarana
Karnavedha
Vidyarambha
Upanayana
Keshanta
Ritushuddhi
Samavartana
Vivaha
Antyeshti





Varnashrama



Varna

Brahmin
Kshatriya
Vaishya
Shudra




Ashrama

Brahmacharya
Grihastha
Vanaprastha
Sanyassa







Festivals



Diwali
Holi
Shivaratri
Raksha Bandhan
Navaratri

Durga Puja
Ramlila
Vijayadashami (Dasara)


Ganesh Chaturthi
Rama Navami
Janmashtami
Onam
Pongal
Makar Sankranti
New Year

Bihu
Gudi Padwa
Pahela Baishakh
Puthandu
Vaisakhi
Vishu
Ugadi


Kumbha Mela
Ratha Yatra
Teej
Vasant Panchami
Others





Other



Svādhyāya
Namaste








Related



Hindu
Denominations
Law
Calendar
Criticism
Gurus, saints, philosophers
Hindu studies
Iconography
Mythology
Nationalism

Hindutva


Persecution
Pilgrimage sites
Glossary
Hinduism by country








Category
Portal












v
t
e


Buddhism topics






Glossary
Index
Outline





Foundations



Three Jewels

Buddha
Dharma
Sangha


Four Noble Truths
Noble Eightfold Path
Nirvana
Middle Way





The Buddha



Tathāgata
Birthday
Four sights
Physical characteristics
Footprint
Relics
Iconography in Laos and Thailand
Films
Miracles
Family

Suddhodāna (father)
Māyā (mother)
Mahapajapati Gotamī (aunt, adoptive mother)
Yasodhara (wife)
Rāhula (son)
Ānanda (cousin)
Devadatta (cousin)


Places where the Buddha stayed
Buddha in world religions





Key concepts



Avidyā (Ignorance)
Bardo
Bodhicitta
Bodhisattva
Buddha-nature
Dhamma theory
Dharma
Enlightenment
Five hindrances
Indriya
Karma
Kleshas
Mind Stream
Parinirvana
Pratītyasamutpāda
Rebirth
Saṃsāra
Saṅkhāra
Skandha
Śūnyatā
Taṇhā (Craving)
Tathātā
Ten Fetters
Three marks of existence

Impermanence
Dukkha
Anatta


Two truths doctrine





Cosmology



Ten spiritual realms
Six realms

Heaven
Human realm
Asura realm
Hungry Ghost realm
Animal realm
Hell


Three planes of existence





Practices



Bhavana
Bodhipakkhiyādhammā
Brahmavihara

Mettā
Karuṇā
Mudita
Upekkha


Dāna
Devotion
Dhyāna
Faith
Five Strengths
Iddhipada
Meditation

Mantras
Kammaṭṭhāna
Recollection
Smarana
Anapanasati
Samatha
Vipassanā (Vipassana movement)
Shikantaza
Zazen
Kōan
Mandala
Tonglen
Tantra
Tertön
Terma


Merit
Mindfulness

Satipatthana


Nekkhamma
Pāramitā
Paritta
Puja

Offerings
Prostration
Chanting


Refuge
Satya

Sacca


Seven Factors of Enlightenment

Sati
Dhamma vicaya
Pīti
Passaddhi


Śīla

Five Precepts
Bodhisattva vow
Prātimokṣa


Threefold Training

Śīla
Samadhi
Prajñā


Vīrya

Four Right Exertions







Nirvana



Bodhi
Bodhisattva
Buddhahood
Pratyekabuddha
Four stages of enlightenment

Sotāpanna
Sakadagami
Anāgāmi
Arhat







Monasticism



Bhikkhu
Bhikkhuni
Śrāmaṇera
Śrāmaṇerī
Anagarika
Ajahn
Sayadaw
Zen master
Rōshi
Lama
Rinpoche
Geshe
Tulku
Householder
Upāsaka and Upāsikā
Śrāvaka

The ten principal disciples


Shaolin Monastery





Major figures



Gautama Buddha
Kaundinya
Assaji
Sāriputta
Mahamoggallāna
Mulian
Ānanda
Mahākassapa
Anuruddha
Mahākaccana
Nanda
Subhuti
Punna
Upali
Mahapajapati Gotamī
Khema
Uppalavanna
Asita
Channa
Yasa
Buddhaghoṣa
Nagasena
Angulimala
Bodhidharma
Nagarjuna
Asanga
Vasubandhu
Atiśa
Padmasambhava
Nichiren
Songtsen Gampo
Emperor Wen of Sui
Dalai Lama
Panchen Lama
Karmapa
Shamarpa
Naropa
Xuanzang
Zhiyi





Texts



Tripiṭaka
Madhyamakālaṃkāra
Mahayana sutras
Pāli Canon
Chinese Buddhist canon
Tibetan Buddhist canon





Branches



Theravada
Mahayana

Chan Buddhism

Zen
Seon
Thiền


Pure Land
Tiantai
Nichiren
Madhyamaka
Yogachara


Navayana
Vajrayana

Tibetan
Shingon
Dzogchen


Early Buddhist schools
Pre-sectarian Buddhism
Basic points unifying Theravāda and Mahāyāna





Countries



Afghanistan
Bangladesh
Bhutan
Cambodia
China
India
Indonesia
Japan
Korea
Laos
Malaysia
Maldives
Mongolia
Myanmar
Nepal
Pakistan
Philippines
Russia

Kalmykia
Buryatia


Singapore
Sri Lanka
Taiwan
Thailand
Tibet
Vietnam
Middle East

Iran


Western countries

Argentina
Australia
Brazil
France
United Kingdom
United States
Venezuela







History



Timeline
Ashoka
Buddhist councils
History of Buddhism in India

Decline of Buddhism in India


Great Anti-Buddhist Persecution
Greco-Buddhism
Buddhism and the Roman world
Buddhism in the West
Silk Road transmission of Buddhism
Persecution of Buddhists
Banishment of Buddhist monks from Nepal
Buddhist crisis
Sinhalese Buddhist nationalism
Buddhist modernism
Vipassana movement
969 Movement
Women in Buddhism





Philosophy



Abhidharma
Atomism
Buddhology
Creator
Economics
Eight Consciousnesses
Engaged Buddhism
Eschatology
Ethics
Evolution
Humanism
Logic
Reality
Secular Buddhism
Socialism
The unanswered questions





Culture



Architecture

Temple
Vihara
Wat
Stupa
Pagoda
Candi
Dzong architecture
Japanese Buddhist architecture
Korean Buddhist temples
Thai temple art and architecture
Tibetan Buddhist architecture


Art

Greco-Buddhist


Bodhi Tree
Budai
Buddharupa
Calendar
Cuisine
Funeral
Holidays

Vesak
Uposatha
Magha Puja
Asalha Puja
Vassa


Jaya Sri Maha Bodhi
Kasaya
Mahabodhi Temple
Mantra

Om mani padme hum


Mudra
Music
Pilgrimage

Lumbini
Maya Devi Temple
Bodh Gaya
Sarnath
Kushinagar


Poetry
Prayer beads
Prayer wheel
Symbolism

Dharmachakra
Flag
Bhavacakra
Swastika
Thangka


Temple of the Tooth
Vegetarianism





Miscellaneous



Abhijñā
Amitābha
Avalokiteśvara

Guanyin


Brahmā
Dhammapada
Dharma talk
Hinayana
Kalpa
Koliya
Lineage
Maitreya
Māra
Ṛddhi
Sacred languages

Pali
Sanskrit


Siddhi
Sutra
Vinaya





Comparison



Bahá'í Faith
Christianity

Influences
Comparison


East Asian religions
Gnosticism
Hinduism
Jainism
Judaism
Psychology
Science
Theosophy
Violence
Western philosophy





Lists



Bodhisattvas
Books
Buddhas

named


Buddhists
Suttas
Temples








Category
Portal









Authority control



WorldCat Identities
VIAF: 152756614
LCCN: sh91005313
GND: 4386310-3










 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Angkor_Wat&oldid=810739208"					
Categories: 12th-century Hindu templesAngkorian sites in Siem Reap ProvinceKhmer EmpireArchaeoastronomyArchaeological sites in CambodiaBuddhist pilgrimagesBuddhist temples in Siem Reap ProvinceHindu temples in Siem Reap ProvinceHindu World Heritage SitesNational symbols of CambodiaTourist attractions in CambodiaTourist attractions in Siem Reap ProvinceWorld Heritage Sites in CambodiaHidden categories: CS1 French-language sources (fr)Webarchive template wayback linksWikipedia indefinitely move-protected pagesUse dmy dates from February 2012Use British English from March 2017Coordinates on WikidataArticles which use infobox templates with no data rowsArticles containing Khmer-language textFeatured articlesWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersArticles containing video clips 
