Leased access - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

Leased access is airtime that the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) mandates must be provided by cable operators (such as Comcast Xfinity and Charter Spectrum) for use by independent cable programmers and producers who are not owned by the operators. Leased access airtime may be purchased on specialty channels by individuals or groups with E&O insurance for the purposes of airing television programming content, usually local programming.
The prices for leased access are subject to a maximum set by an FCC formula and therefore in theory cannot be manipulated by cable companies. Cable companies, however, can "manipulate" prices through lobbying the FCC. Indeed, in 1997, the FCC set maximum prices based on an "average implicit fee" formula which set the prices considered by cable programmers to be very high. Lower prices would likely encourage increased usage of leased access by independent programmers.
Leased access is different from Public, educational, and government access (PEG) cable TV channels, in that producers pay a fee to have a program on a leased access channel, as opposed to time on a public-access television channel, which is free or at minimum cost.[citation needed]
See also[edit]

Brokered programming, radio counterpart to leased access

External links[edit]

Leased Access Programmers' Association




This article about television in the United States is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.


v
t
e








This article related to television terminology is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.


v
t
e









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Leased_access&oldid=797125641"					
Categories: American public access televisionCable television in the United StatesTelevision terminologyBrokered programmingUnited States television stubsTelevision stubsHidden categories: All articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from October 2008All stub articles 
