History of the world - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

This article is about the history of humanity. For the entire history of Earth, see History of Earth. For a field of historical study, see World history. For other uses, see History of the world (disambiguation).


Human history


↑ Prehistory


Recorded history


Ancient




Earliest records



Africa
Americas




East Asia
South Asia




Southeast Asia
West Asia




Mediterranean





Postclassical





Africa
Americas




Central Asia
East Asia




South Asia




Southeast Asia
West Asia




Europe





Modern








Early modern
Late modern





See also





Contemporary
Modernity
Futurology








↓ Future





v
t
e





The history of the world is the history of humanity (or human history), as determined from archaeology, anthropology, genetics, linguistics, and other disciplines; and, for periods since the invention of writing, from recorded history and from secondary sources and studies.




World population, 10,000 BCE – 2,000 CE (vertical population scale is logarithmic)[1]


Humanity's written history was preceded by its prehistory, beginning with the Palaeolithic Era ("Early Stone Age"), followed by the Neolithic Era ("New Stone Age"). The Neolithic saw the Agricultural Revolution begin, between 8000 and 5000 BCE, in the Near East's Fertile Crescent. The Agricultural Revolution marked a fundamental change in history, with humans beginning the systematic husbandry of plants and animals.[2] As agriculture advanced, most humans transitioned from a nomadic to a settled lifestyle as farmers in permanent settlements. The relative security and increased productivity provided by farming allowed communities to expand into increasingly larger units, fostered by advances in transportation.
Whether in prehistoric or historic times, people always had to be near reliable sources of potable water. Cities developed on river banks as early as 3000 BCE, when some of the first well-developed settlements arose in Mesopotamia,[3] on the banks of Egypt's Nile River,[4][5] in the Indus River valley,[6] and along China's rivers.[7][8] As farming developed, grain agriculture became more sophisticated and prompted a division of labour to store food between growing seasons. Labour divisions led to the rise of a leisured upper class and the development of cities, which provided the foundation for civilization. The growing complexity of human societies necessitated systems of accounting and writing.
With civilizations flourishing, ancient history ("Antiquity," including the Classical Age,[9] up to about 500 CE[10]) saw the rise and fall of empires. Post-classical history (the "Middle Ages," c. 500–1500 CE [11]) witnessed the rise of Christianity, the Islamic Golden Age (c. 750 CE – c. 1258 CE), and the early Italian Renaissance (from around 1300 CE). The Early Modern Period, sometimes referred to as the "European Age",[12] from about 1500 to 1800,[13] included the Age of Enlightenment and the Age of Discovery. The mid-15th-century invention of modern printing, employing movable type,[14] revolutionized communication and facilitated ever wider dissemination of information, helping end the Middle Ages and ushering in the Scientific Revolution.[15] By the 18th century, the accumulation of knowledge and technology had reached a critical mass that brought about the Industrial Revolution[16] and began the Late Modern Period, which starts around 1800 and includes the current day.[17]
This scheme of historical periodization (dividing history into Antiquity, Post-Classical, Early Modern, and Late Modern periods) was developed for, and applies best to, the history of the Old World, particularly Europe and the Mediterranean. Outside this region, including ancient China and ancient India, historical timelines unfolded differently. However, by the 18th century, due to extensive world trade and colonization, the histories of most civilizations had become substantially intertwined. In the last quarter-millennium, the rates of growth of population, knowledge, technology, communications, commerce, weapons destructiveness, and environmental degradation have greatly accelerated, creating opportunities and perils that now confront the planet's human communities.[18]



Contents


1 Prehistory

1.1 Early humans
1.2 Rise of civilization


2 Ancient history

2.1 Cradles of civilization
2.2 Axial Age
2.3 Regional empires
2.4 Declines, falls and resurgence


3 Post-classical history

3.1 Middle East, Central Asia and North Africa
3.2 Europe
3.3 Sub-Saharan Africa
3.4 South Asia
3.5 East Asia
3.6 Southeast Asia
3.7 Oceania
3.8 The Americas


4 Modern history

4.1 Early modern period

4.1.1 Renaissance
4.1.2 European expansion
4.1.3 Regional developments


4.2 Late Modern period

4.2.1 1750–1914
4.2.2 1914–1945


4.3 Contemporary history

4.3.1 1945–2000
4.3.2 21st century




5 See also
6 Notes
7 Citations
8 References
9 Further reading
10 External links



Prehistory
Main articles: Prehistory and Human evolution
Early humans
Genetic measurements indicate that the ape lineage which would lead to Homo sapiens diverged from the lineage that would lead to the bonobo, the closest living relative of modern humans, around 4.6 to 6.2 million years ago.[19] Anatomically modern humans arose in Africa about 200,000 years ago,[20] and reached behavioural modernity about 50,000 years ago.[21]




Cave painting, Lascaux, France, c. 15,000 BCE






"Venus of Willensdorf", Austria, c. 26,500 BCE


Modern humans spread rapidly from Africa into the frost-free zones of Europe and Asia around 60,000 years ago.[22] The rapid expansion of humankind to North America and Oceania took place at the climax of the most recent ice age, when temperate regions of today were extremely inhospitable. Yet, humans had colonized nearly all the ice-free parts of the globe by the end of the Ice Age, some 12,000 years ago.[23] Other hominids such as Homo erectus had been using simple wood and stone tools for millennia, but as time progressed, tools became far more refined and complex. Perhaps as early as 1.8 million years ago, but certainly by 500,000 years ago, humans began using fire for heat and cooking.[24] They also developed language in the Paleolithic period[25] and a conceptual repertoire that included systematic burial of the dead and adornment of the living. Early artistic expression can be found in the form of cave paintings and sculptures made from ivory, stone, and bone, showing a spirituality generally interpreted as animism, or even shamanism.[26] During this period, all humans lived as hunter-gatherers, and were generally nomadic.[27] Archaeological and genetic data suggest that the source populations of Paleolithic hunter-gatherers survived in sparsely wooded areas and dispersed through areas of high primary productivity while avoiding dense forest cover.[28]
Rise of civilization
The Neolithic Revolution, beginning around 10,000 BCE, saw the development of agriculture, which fundamentally changed the human lifestyle. Farming developed around 10,000 BCE in the Middle East, around 7000 BCE in what is now China, about 6000 BCE in the Indus Valley and Europe, and about 4000 BCE in the Americas.[29] Cultivation of cereal crops and the domestication of animals occurred around 8500 BCE in the Middle East, where wheat and barley were the first crops and sheep and goats were domesticated.[30] In the Indus Valley, crops were cultivated by 6000 BCE, along with domesticated cattle. The Yellow River valley in China cultivated millet and other cereal crops by about 7000 BCE, but the Yangtze River valley domesticated rice earlier, by at least 8000 BCE. In the Americas, sunflowers were cultivated by about 4000 BCE, and corn and beans were domesticated in Central America by 3500 BCE. Potatoes were first cultivated in the Andes Mountains of South America, where the llama was also domesticated.[29] Metal-working, starting with copper around 6000 BCE, was first used for tools and ornaments. Gold soon followed, with its main use being for ornaments. The need for metal ores stimulated trade, as many of the areas of early human settlement were lacking in ores. Bronze, an alloy of copper and tin, is first known from about 2500 BCE, but did not become widely used until much later.[31]




Cuneiform writing, Mesopotamia


Though early "cities" appeared at Jericho and Catal Huyuk around 6000 BCE,[32] the first civilizations did not emerge until around 3000 BCE in Egypt[33] and Mesopotamia.[34] These cultures gave birth to the invention of the wheel,[35] mathematics,[36] bronze-working, sailing boats, the pottery wheel, woven cloth, construction of monumental buildings,[37] and writing.[38] Writing developed independently and at different times in five areas of the world:[39] Egypt (c. 3200 BCE),[39] India (c. 3200 BCE),[40] Mesopotamia (c. 3000 BCE),[41] China (c. 1600 BCE),[42] and Mesoamerica (c. 600 BCE).[39]
Farming permitted far denser populations, which in time organized into states. Agriculture also created food surpluses that could support people not directly engaged in food production.[43] The development of agriculture permitted the creation of the first cities. These were centres of trade, manufacturing and political power.[44] Cities established a symbiosis with their surrounding countrysides, absorbing agricultural products and providing, in return, manufactured goods and varying degrees of military control and protection.
The development of cities was synonymous with the rise of civilization.[a] Early civilizations arose first in Lower Mesopotamia (3000 BCE),[46][47] followed by Egyptian civilization along the Nile River (3000 BCE),[5] the Harappan civilization in the Indus River Valley (in present-day India and Pakistan; 2500 BCE),[48][49] and Chinese civilization along the Yellow and Yangtze Rivers (2200 BCE).[7][8] These societies developed a number of unifying characteristics, including a central government, a complex economy and social structure, sophisticated language and writing systems, and distinct cultures and religions. Writing facilitated the administration of cities, the expression of ideas, and the preservation of information.
[50] Entities such as the Sun, Moon, Earth, sky, and sea were often deified.[citation needed] Shrines developed, which evolved into temple establishments, complete with a complex hierarchy of priests and priestesses and other functionaries. Typical of the Neolithic was a tendency to worship anthropomorphic deities. Among the earliest surviving written religious scriptures are the Egyptian Pyramid Texts, the oldest of which date to between 2400 and 2300 BCE.
Ancient history
Main article: Ancient history


Ancient history


Preceded by Prehistory


Ancient Near East





Sumer
Egypt
Assyria
Elam
Akkad
Babylonia
Canaan
Phoenicia
Israel and Judah
Hittite Empire
Arzawa
Mitanni
Minoan Crete
Mycenaean Greece
Syro-Hittite states
Hayasa-Azzi
Georgia
Anatolia
Armenia
Neo-Assyrian Empire
Urartu
Neo-Babylonian Empire
Medes





Classical antiquity





Greece
Persia (Achaemenid)




Hellenism
Rome
Africa



Late Antiquity




East Asia





China
Korea
Japan





South Asia





Indus Valley
Vedic period
Maha Janapadas
Maurya Empire
Tamilakam
Satavahana
Gupta Empire





Pre-Columbian Americas





Mesoamerica

Olmec
Maya civilization
Teotihuacan
Aztec


Andean civilizations

Chavín culture
Moche
Inca empire







See also




History of the world



Ancient maritime history
Protohistory
Axial Age
Iron Age
Historiography
Ancient literature
Ancient warfare
Cradle of civilization





Followed by the Postclassical Era





v
t
e





Cradles of civilization
Main articles: Cradle of civilization, Bronze Age, and Iron Age




Great Pyramids of Giza, Egypt


The Bronze Age is part of the three-age system (Stone Age, Bronze Age, Iron Age) that for some parts of the world describes effectively the early history of civilization. During this era the most fertile areas of the world saw city-states and the first civilizations develop. These were concentrated in fertile river valleys: the Tigris and Euphrates in Mesopotamia, the Nile in Egypt,[citation needed] the Indus in the Indian subcontinent,[48] and the Yangtze and Yellow Rivers in China.
Sumer, located in Mesopotamia, is the first known complex civilization, developing the first city-states in the 4th millennium BCE.[47] It was in these cities that the earliest known form of writing, cuneiform script, appeared around 3000 BCE.[39][51] Cuneiform writing began as a system of pictographs. These pictorial representations eventually became simplified and more abstract.[51] Cuneiform texts were written on clay tablets, on which symbols were drawn with a blunt reed used as a stylus.[39] Writing made the administration of a large state far easier.
Transport was facilitated by waterways—by rivers and seas. The Mediterranean Sea, at the juncture of three continents, fostered the projection of military power and the exchange of goods, ideas, and inventions. This era also saw new land technologies, such as horse-based cavalry and chariots, that allowed armies to move faster.




Fresco, Knossos, Minoan Crete


These developments led to the rise of territorial states and empires. In Mesopotamia there prevailed a pattern of independent warring city-states and of a loose hegemony shifting from one city to another.[citation needed] In Egypt, by contrast, first there was a dual division into Upper and Lower Egypt which was shortly followed by unification of all the valley around 3100 BCE, followed by permanent pacification.[52] In Crete the Minoan civilization had entered the Bronze Age by 2700 BCE and is regarded as the first civilization in Europe.[53] Over the next millennia, other river valleys saw monarchical empires rise to power.[citation needed] In the 25th – 21st centuries BCE, the empires of Akkad and Sumer arose in Mesopotamia.[54]
Over the following millennia, civilizations developed across the world. Trade increasingly became a source of power as states with access to important resources or controlling important trade routes rose to dominance.[citation needed] By 1400 BCE, Mycenaean Greece began to develop.[55] In India this era was the Vedic period, which laid the foundations of Hinduism and other cultural aspects of early Indian society, and ended in the 6th century BCE.[56] From around 550 BCE, many independent kingdoms and republics known as the Mahajanapadas were established across the subcontinent.[57]
As complex civilizations arose in the Eastern Hemisphere, the indigenous societies in the Americas remained relatively simple and fragmented into diverse regional cultures. During the formative stage in Mesoamerica (about 1500 BCE to 500 CE), more complex and centralized civilizations began to develop, mostly in what is now Mexico, Central America, and Peru. They included civilizations such as the Olmec, Maya, Zapotec, Moche, and Nazca. They developed agriculture, growing maize, chili peppers, cocoa, tomatoes, and potatoes, crops unique to the Americas, and creating distinct cultures and religions. These ancient indigenous societies would be greatly affected, for good and ill, by European contact during the early modern period.
Axial Age
Main articles: Axial Age, History of philosophy, Timeline of religion, and History of religions




Buddha






Socrates


Beginning in the 8th century BCE, the "Axial Age" saw the development of a set of transformative philosophical and religious ideas, mostly independently, in many different places.[citation needed] Chinese Confucianism, Indian Buddhism and Jainism, and Jewish monotheism are all claimed by some scholars to have developed in the 6th century BCE. (Karl Jaspers' Axial-Age theory also includes Persian Zoroastrianism, but other scholars dispute his timeline for Zoroastrianism.) In the 5th century BCE, Socrates and Plato made substantial advances in the development of ancient Greek philosophy.
In the East, three schools of thought would dominate Chinese thinking until the modern day. These were Taoism, Legalism, and Confucianism. The Confucian tradition, which would become particularly dominant, looked for political morality not to the force of law but to the power and example of tradition. Confucianism would later spread to the Korean Peninsula and toward Japan.
In the West, the Greek philosophical tradition, represented by Socrates, Plato, Aristotle, and other philosophers,[58] along with accumulated science, technology, and culture, diffused throughout Europe, Egypt, the Middle East, and Northwest India, starting in the 4th century BCE after the conquests of Alexander III of Macedon (Alexander the Great).[59]
Regional empires
Main articles: Civilization and Empire
The millennium from 500 BCE to 500 CE saw a series of empires of unprecedented size develop. Well-trained professional armies, unifying ideologies, and advanced bureaucracies created the possibility for emperors to rule over large domains whose populations could attain numbers upwards of tens of millions of subjects. The great empires depended on military annexation of territory and on the formation of defended settlements to become agricultural centres. The relative peace that the empires brought encouraged international trade, most notably the massive trade routes in the Mediterranean, the maritime trade web in the Indian Ocean, and the Silk Road. In southern Europe, the Greeks (and later the Romans), in an era known as "classical antiquity," established cultures whose practices, laws, and customs are considered the foundation of contemporary Western culture.




Persepolis, Achaemenid Empire, 5th century BCE






Parthenon, Athenian Empire






Pillar erected by India's Maurya Dynasty Emperor Ashoka






Trajan's Column, Rome






Terracotta army, China, c. 210 BCE






Obelisk of Aksum, Ethiopia


There were a number of regional empires during this period. The kingdom of the Medes helped to destroy the Assyrian Empire in tandem with the nomadic Scythians and the Babylonians. Nineveh, the capital of Assyria, was sacked by the Medes in 612 BCE.[60] The Median Empire gave way to successive Iranian empires, including the Achaemenid Empire (550–330 BCE) and the Sasanian Empire (224–651 CE).
Several empires began in modern-day Greece. First was the Delian League (from 477 BCE)[61] and the succeeding Athenian Empire (454–404 BCE), centred in present-day Greece. Later, Alexander the Great (356–323 BCE), of Macedon, founded an empire of conquest, extending from present-day Greece to present-day India.[62][63] The empire divided shortly after his death, but the influence of his Hellenistic successors made for an extended Hellenistic period (323–31 BCE)[64] throughout the region.
In Asia, the Maurya Empire (322–185 BCE) existed in present-day India;[65] in the 3rd century BCE, most of South Asia was united to the Maurya Empire by Chandragupta Maurya and flourished under Ashoka the Great. From the 3rd century CE, the Gupta dynasty oversaw the period referred to as ancient India's Golden Age. From the 4th to 6th centuries, northern India was ruled by the Gupta Empire. In southern India, three prominent Dravidian kingdoms emerged: the Cheras,[citation needed] Cholas,[66] and Pandyas. The ensuing stability contributed to heralding in the golden age of Hindu culture in the 4th and 5th centuries.
In Europe, the Roman Empire, centred in present-day Italy, began in the 7th century BCE.[67] Beginning in the 3rd century BCE, the Roman Republic began expanding its territory through conquest and alliances.[68] By the time of Augustus (63 BCE – 14 CE), who became the first Roman Emperor, Rome had already established dominion over most of the Mediterranean. The empire would continue to grow, controlling much of the land from England to Mesopotamia, reaching its greatest extent under the emperor Trajan (d. 117 CE). In the 3rd century CE, the empire would split into western and eastern regions, with (usually) separate emperors. The Western empire would fall, in 476 CE, to German influence under Odoacer. The eastern empire, now known as the Byzantine Empire, with its capital at Constantinople, would continue for another thousand years, until overthrown by the Ottoman Empire in 1453 CE.
In China, the Qin dynasty (221–206 BCE), the first imperial dynasty of China, was followed by the Han Empire (206 BCE – 220 CE). The Han Dynasty was comparable in power and influence to the Roman Empire that lay at the other end of the Silk Road. Han China developed advanced cartography, shipbuilding, and navigation. The Chinese invented blast furnaces, and created finely tuned copper instruments. As with other empires during the Classical Period, Han China advanced significantly in the areas of government, education, mathematics, astronomy, technology, and many others.[69]




Maya observatory, Chichen Itza, Mexico


In Africa, the Kingdom of Aksum, centred in present-day Ethiopia, established itself by the 1st century CE as a major trading empire, dominating its neighbours in South Arabia and Kush and controlling the Red Sea trade. It minted its own currency and carved enormous monolithic steles such as the Obelisk of Axum to mark their emperors' graves.
Successful regional empires were also established in the Americas, arising from cultures established as early as 2500 BCE.[70] In Mesoamerica, vast pre-Columbian societies were built, the most notable being the Zapotec Empire (700 BCE – 1521 CE),[71] and the Maya civilization, which reached its highest state of development during the Mesoamerican Classic period (c. 250–900 CE),[72] but continued throughout the Post-Classic period until the arrival of the Spanish in the 16th century CE. Maya civilization arose as the Olmec mother culture gradually declined. The great Mayan city-states slowly rose in number and prominence, and Maya culture spread throughout the Yucatán and surrounding areas. The later empire of the Aztecs was built on neighbouring cultures and was influenced by conquered peoples such as the Toltecs.
Some areas experienced slow but steady technological advances, with important developments such as the stirrup and moldboard plough arriving every few centuries. There were, however, in some regions, periods of rapid technological progress. Most important, perhaps, was the Mediterranean area during the Hellenistic period, when hundreds of technologies were invented.[73] Such periods were followed by periods of technological decay, as during the Roman Empire's decline and fall and the ensuing early medieval period.
Declines, falls and resurgence
The empires faced common problems associated with maintaining huge armies and supporting a central bureaucracy. These costs fell most heavily on the peasantry, while land-owning magnates increasingly evaded centralized control and its costs. Barbarian pressure on the frontiers hastened internal dissolution. China's Han dynasty fell into civil war in 220 CE, beginning the Three Kingdoms period, while its Roman counterpart became increasingly decentralized and divided about the same time in what is known as the Crisis of the Third Century. The great empires of Eurasia were all located on temperate and subtropical coastal plains. From the Central Asian steppes, horse-based nomads (mainly Mongols and Turks) dominated a large part of the continent. The development of the stirrup and the breeding of horses strong enough to carry a fully armed archer made the nomads a constant threat to the more settled civilizations.




Pantheon, Rome, now a Catholic church


The gradual break-up of the Roman Empire, spanning several centuries after the 2nd century CE, coincided with the spread of Christianity outward from the Middle East.[74] The Western Roman Empire fell under the domination of Germanic tribes in the 5th century,[75] and these polities gradually developed into a number of warring states, all associated in one way or another with the Catholic Church.[76] The remaining part of the Roman Empire, in the eastern Mediterranean, continued as what came to be called the Byzantine Empire.[77] Centuries later, a limited unity would be restored to western Europe through the establishment in 962 of a revived "Roman Empire",[78] later called the Holy Roman Empire,[79] comprising a number of states in what is now Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Czech Republic, Belgium, Italy, and parts of France.[80][81]
In China, dynasties would rise and fall, but, by sharp contrast to the Mediterranean-European world, dynastic unity would be restored. After the fall of the Eastern Han Dynasty[82] and the demise of the Three Kingdoms, nomadic tribes from the north began to invade in the 4th century, eventually conquering areas of northern China and setting up many small kingdoms.[citation needed] The Sui Dynasty successfully reunified the whole of China[83] in 581,[84] and laid the foundations for a Chinese golden age under the Tang dynasty (618–907).
Post-classical history
Main article: Post-classical history




University of Timbuktu, Mali


The Post-classical Era, though deriving its name from the Eurocentric era of "Classical antiquity", refers to a broader geographic sweep. The era is commonly dated from the 5th-century fall of the Western Roman Empire, which fragmented into many separate kingdoms, some of which would later be confederated under the Holy Roman Empire. The Eastern Roman, or Byzantine, Empire survived until late in the Post-classical, or Medieval, period. The Post-classical period also encompasses the Early Muslim conquests, the subsequent Islamic Golden Age, and the commencement and expansion of the Arab slave trade, followed by the Mongol invasions in the Middle East and Central Asia,[citation needed] and the founding around 1280 of the Ottoman Empire.[85] South Asia saw a series of middle kingdoms of India, followed by the establishment of Islamic empires in India.
In western Africa, the Mali Empire and the Songhai Empire developed. On the southeast coast of Africa, Arabic ports were established where gold, spices, and other commodities were traded. This allowed Africa to join the Southeast Asia trading system, bringing it contact with Asia; this, along with Muslim culture, resulted in the Swahili culture. The Chinese Empire experienced the successive Sui, Tang, Song, Yuan, early Ming Dynasties. Middle Eastern trade routes along the Indian Ocean, and the Silk Road through the Gobi Desert, provided limited economic and cultural contact between Asian and European civilizations. During the same period, civilizations in the Americas, such as the Inca, Maya, and Aztec, reached their height; all would be seriously compromised by contact with European colonists at the beginning of the Modern period.
Middle East, Central Asia and North Africa
Main articles: History of the Middle East, History of Central Asia, History of North Africa, and Islamic Golden Age
Prior to the advent of Islam in the 7th century, the Middle East was dominated by the Byzantine Empire and the Persian Sasanian Empire, which constantly fought each other for control of several disputed regions. This was also a cultural battle, with the Byzantine Hellenistic and Christian culture competing against the Persian Iranian traditions and Zoroastrian religion. The formation of the Islamic religion created a new contender that quickly surpassed both of these empires. Islam greatly affected the political, economic, and military history of the Old World, especially the Middle East.




Great Mosque of Kairouan, Tunisia, founded 670 CE


From their centre on the Arabian Peninsula, Muslims began their expansion during the early Postclassical Era. By 750 CE, they came to conquer most of the Near East, North Africa, and parts of Europe, ushering in an era of learning, science, and invention known as the Islamic Golden Age. The knowledge and skills of the ancient Near East, Greece, and Persia were preserved in the Postclassical Era by Muslims, who also added new and important innovations from outside, such as the manufacture of paper from China and decimal positional numbering from India.
Much of this learning and development can be linked to geography. Even prior to Islam's presence, the city of Mecca had served as a centre of trade in Arabia, and the Islamic prophet Muhammad himself was a merchant. With the new Islamic tradition of the Hajj, the pilgrimage to Mecca, the city became even more a centre for exchanging goods and ideas. The influence held by Muslim merchants over African-Arabian and Arabian-Asian trade routes was tremendous. As a result, Islamic civilization grew and expanded on the basis of its merchant economy, in contrast to the Europeans, Indians, and Chinese, who based their societies on an agricultural landholding nobility. Merchants brought goods and their Islamic faith to China, India, southeast Asia, and the kingdoms of western Africa, and returned with new discoveries and inventions.




Crusader Krak des Chevaliers, Syria


Motivated by religion and dreams of conquest, European kings launched a number of Crusades to try to roll back Muslim power and retake the Holy Land. The Crusades were ultimately unsuccessful and served more to weaken the Byzantine Empire especially with the 1204 sack of Constantinople, which began to lose increasing amounts of territory to the Ottoman Turks. Arab domination of the region ended in the mid-11th century with the arrival of the Seljuq Turks, migrating south from the Turkic homelands in Central Asia. In the early 13th century, a new wave of invaders, the Mongol Empire's armies, swept through the region but were eventually eclipsed by the Turks[citation needed] and the founding of the Ottoman Empire in modern-day Turkey around 1280.[85]
Starting with the Sui Dynasty (581–618), the Chinese began expanding into eastern Central Asia, and had to deal with Turkic nomads, who were becoming the most dominant ethnic group in Central Asia.[86][87] Originally the relationship was largely cooperative, but in 630 the Tang dynasty began an offensive against the Turks,[88] capturing areas of the Mongolian Ordos Desert. The Tang Empire competed with the Tibetan Empire for control of areas in Inner and Central Asia.[89] In the 8th century, Islam began to penetrate the region and soon became the sole faith of most of the population, though Buddhism remained strong in the east.[citation needed] The desert nomads of Arabia could militarily match the nomads of the steppe, and the early Arab Empire gained control over parts of Central Asia.
The Hephthalites were the most powerful of the nomad groups in the 6th and 7th centuries, and controlled much of the region. In the 9th through 13th centuries the region was divided among several powerful states, including the Samanid dynasty,[citation needed] the Seljuq dynasty,[90] and the Khwarezmid Empire. The most spectacular power to rise out of Central Asia developed when Genghis Khan united the tribes of Mongolia. The Mongol Empire spread to comprise all of Central Asia and China as well as large parts of Russia, and the Middle East.[citation needed] After Genghis Khan died in 1227,[91] most of Central Asia continued to be dominated by the successor Chagatai Khanate. In 1369, Timur, a Turkic leader in the Mongol military tradition, conquered most of the region and founded the Timurid Empire. Timur's large empire collapsed soon after his death, however. The region then became divided into a series of smaller khanates that were created by the Uzbeks. These included the Khanate of Khiva, the Khanate of Bukhara, and the Khanate of Kokand, all of whose capitals are located in present-day Uzbekistan.
North Africa saw the rise of polities formed by the Berbers, such as the Marinid dynasty in Morocco, the Zayyanid dynasty in Algeria, and the Hafsid dynasty in Tunisia. The region will later be called the Barbary Coast and will host pirates and privateers who will use several North African ports for their raids against the coastal towns of several European countries in search of slaves to be sold in North African markets as part of the Barbary slave trade.
Europe
Main articles: History of Europe and Middle Ages
Europe during the Early Middle Ages was characterized by depopulation, deurbanization, and barbarian invasion, all of which had begun in Late Antiquity. The barbarian invaders formed their own new kingdoms in the remains of the Western Roman Empire. In the 7th century, North Africa and the Middle East, once part of the Eastern Roman Empire, became part of the Caliphate after conquest by Muhammad's successors. Although there were substantial changes in society and political structures, the break was not as extreme as once put forth by historians, with most of the new kingdoms incorporating as many of the existing Roman institutions as they could. Christianity expanded in western Europe, and monasteries were founded. In the 7th and 8th centuries the Franks, under the Carolingian dynasty, established an empire covering much of western Europe;[citation needed] it lasted until the 9th century, when it succumbed to pressure from new invaders—the Vikings,[92] Magyars, and Saracens.




Notre Dame Cathedral, Paris, France


During the High Middle Ages, which began after 1000, the population of Europe increased greatly as technological and agricultural innovations allowed trade to flourish and crop yields to increase. Manorialism—the organization of peasants into villages that owed rents and labour service to nobles—and feudalism—a political structure whereby knights and lower-status nobles owed military service to their overlords in return for the right to rents from lands and manors—were two of the ways of organizing medieval society that developed during the High Middle Ages. Kingdoms became more centralized after the decentralizing effects of the breakup of the Carolingian Empire. The Crusades, first preached in 1095, were an attempt by western Christians from countries such as the Kingdom of England, the Kingdom of France and the Holy Roman Empire to regain control of the Holy Land from the Muslims and succeeded long enough to establish some Christian states in the Near East. Also, merchants imported thousands of Armenians, Circassians, Georgians, Greeks and Slavs into Italy to work as household slaves and in processing sugar. Intellectual life was marked by scholasticism and the founding of universities, while the building of Gothic cathedrals was one of the outstanding artistic achievements of the age.
The Late Middle Ages were marked by difficulties and calamities. Famine, plague and war devastated the population of western Europe.[citation needed] The Black Death alone killed approximately 75 to 200 million people between 1347 and 1350.[93][94] It was one of the deadliest pandemics in human history. Starting in Asia, the disease reached Mediterranean and western Europe during the late 1340s,[95] and killed tens of millions of Europeans in six years; between a third and a half of the population perished.
The Middle Ages witnessed the first sustained urbanization of northern and western Europe. Many modern European states owe their origins to events unfolding in the Middle Ages; present European political boundaries are, in many regards, the result of military and dynastic events during this tumultuous period.[citation needed] The Middle Ages lasted until the beginning of the Early modern period in the 16th century,[13] marked by the rise of nation states,[96] the division of Western Christianity in the Reformation,[97] the rise of humanism in the Italian Renaissance,[98] and the beginnings of European overseas expansion which allowed for the Columbian Exchange.
Sub-Saharan Africa
Main article: History of Africa




Brass "Benin bronze", Nigeria


Medieval Sub-Saharan Africa was home to many different civilizations. The Kingdom of Aksum declined in the 7th century as Islam cut it off from its Christian allies and its people moved further into the Ethiopian Highlands for protection. They eventually gave way to the Zagwe dynasty who are famed for their rock cut architecture at Lalibela. The Zagwe would then fall to the Solomonic dynasty who claimed descent from the Aksumite emperors[citation needed] and would rule the country well into the 20th century. In the West African Sahel region, many Islamic empires rose, such as the Ghana Empire, the Mali Empire, the Songhai Empire, and the Kanem Empire. They controlled the trans-Saharan trade in gold, ivory, salt and slaves.
South of the Sahel, civilizations rose in the coastal forests where horses and camels could not survive.[citation needed] These include the Yoruba city of Ife, noted for its art,[99] and the Oyo Empire, the Benin Empire of the Edo people centred in Benin City, the Igbo Kingdom of Nri which produced advanced bronze art at Igbo-Ukwu, and the Akan who are noted for their intricate architecture.[citation needed]
Central Africa saw the birth of several states, including the Kingdom of Kongo. In what is now modern Zimbabwe various kingdoms such as the Kingdom of Mutapa descended from the Kingdom of Mapungubwe in modern South Africa. They flourished through trade with the Swahili people on the East African coast. They built large defensive stone structures without mortar such as Great Zimbabwe, capital of the Kingdom of Zimbabwe, Khami, capital of Kingdom of Butua, and Danangombe (Dhlo-Dhlo), capital of the Rozwi Empire. The Swahili people themselves were the inhabitants of the East African coast from Kenya to Mozambique who traded extensively with Asians and Arabs, who introduced them to Islam. They built many port cities such as Mombasa, Zanzibar and Kilwa, which were known to Chinese sailors under Zheng He and Islamic geographers.
South Asia
Main article: History of India




Chennakesava Temple, Belur, India


In northern India, after the fall (550 CE) of the Gupta Empire, the region divided into a complex and fluid network of smaller kingly states.[citation needed] Early Muslim incursions began in the west in 712 CE, when the Arab Umayyad Caliphate annexed much of present-day Pakistan. Arab military advance was largely halted at that point, but Islam still spread in India, largely due to the influence of Arab merchants along the western coast. Some of the important states that emerged in India at this time included the Bahmani Sultanate and the Vijayanagara Empire. Post-classical dynasties in South India included those of the Chalukyas, the Rashtrakutas, the Hoysalas, the Cholas, the Islamic Mughals, the Marathas and the Mysores. Science, engineering, art, literature, astronomy, and philosophy flourished under the patronage of these kings.[citation needed]
East Asia
Main article: History of East Asia
After a period of relative disunity, the Sui dynasty reunified China in 581,[citation needed] and under the succeeding Tang dynasty (618–907) China entered a Golden Age.[100] The Tang dynasty eventually splintered, however, and after half a century of turmoil the Song Dynasty reunified China,[citation needed] when it was, according to William McNeill, the "richest, most skilled, and most populous country on earth".[101] Pressure from nomadic empires to the north became increasingly urgent. By 1142, North China had been lost to the Jurchens in the Jin–Song Wars, and the Mongol Empire[102] conquered all of China in 1279, along with almost half of Eurasia's landmass. After about a century of Mongol Yuan dynasty rule, the ethnic Chinese reasserted control with the founding of the Ming dynasty (1368).




Battle during 1281 Mongol invasion of Japan


In Japan, the imperial lineage had been established by this time, and during the Asuka period (538–710) the Yamato Province developed into a clearly centralized state.[103] Buddhism was introduced, and there was an emphasis on the adoption of elements of Chinese culture and Confucianism. The Nara period of the 8th century[104] marked the emergence of a strong Japanese state and is often portrayed as a golden age.[citation needed] During this period, the imperial government undertook great public works, including government offices, temples, roads, and irrigation systems.[citation needed] The Heian period (794 to 1185) saw the peak of imperial power, followed by the rise of militarized clans, and the beginning of Japanese feudalism. The feudal period of Japanese history, dominated by powerful regional families (daimyō) and the military rule of warlords (shogun) such as the Ashikaga shogunate and Tokugawa shogunate, stretched from 1185 to 1868. The emperor remained, but mostly as a figurehead, and the power of merchants was weak.
Postclassical Korea saw the end of the Three Kingdoms era, the three kingdoms being Goguryeo, Baekje and Silla. Silla conquered Baekje in 660, and Goguryeo in 668,[105] marking the beginning of the North–South States Period (남북국시대), with Unified Silla in the south and Balhae, a successor state to Goguryeo, in the north.[106] In 892 CE, this arrangement reverted to the Later Three Kingdoms, with Goguryeo (then called Taebong and eventually named Goryeo) emerging as dominant, unifying the entire peninsula by 936.[107] The founding Goryeo dynasty ruled until 1392, succeeded by the Joseon, which ruled for approximately 500 years.
Southeast Asia




Angkor Wat temple, Cambodia, early 12th century


Main article: History of Southeast Asia
The beginning of the Middle Ages in Southeast Asia saw the fall (550 CE) of the Kingdom of Funan to the Chenla Empire, which was then replaced by the Khmer Empire (802 CE). The Khmer's capital city Angkor was the largest city in the world prior to the industrial age and contained over a thousand temples, the most famous being Angkor Wat. The Sukhothai (1238 CE) and Ayutthaya (1351 CE) kingdoms were major powers of the Thai people, who were influenced by the Khmer. Starting in the 9th century, the Pagan Kingdom rose to prominence in modern Myanmar. Other notable kingdoms of the period include the Srivijayan Empire and the Lavo Kingdom (both coming into prominence in the 7th century), the Champa and the Hariphunchai (both about 750), the Dai Viet (968), Lan Na (13th century), Majapahit (1293), Lan Xang (1354), and the Kingdom of Ava (1364). Taiwanese aborigines formed tribal alliances such as the Kingdom of Middag. It was also during this period that Islam spread to present-day Indonesia (beginning in the 13th century), and the Malay states began to emerge including the Malacca Sultanate, the Bruneian Empire and the Rajahnate of Maynila.
Oceania




Moai, Rapa Nui (Easter Island)


Main article: History of Oceania
The Tuʻi Tonga Empire was founded in the 10th century CE and expanded between 1200 and 1500. Tongan culture, language, and hegemony spread widely throughout Eastern Melanesia, Micronesia and Central Polynesia during this period,[108] influencing East 'Uvea, Rotuma, Futuna, Samoa and Niue, as well as specific islands / parts of Micronesia (Kiribati, Pohnpei, the Mariana Islands populated by the Chamorro people and miscellaneous outliers), Vanuatu, and New Caledonia (specifically, the Loyalty Islands, with the main island being predominantly populated by the Melanesian Kanak people and their cultures).[109] At around the same time, a powerful thalassocracy appeared in Eastern Polynesia centred around the Society Islands, specifically on the sacred Taputapuatea marae, which drew in Eastern Polynesian colonists from places as far away as Hawai'i, New Zealand (Aotearoa), and the Tuamotu Islands for political, spiritual and economic reasons, until the unexplained collapse of regular long-distance voyaging in the Eastern Pacific a few centuries before Europeans began exploring the area. Indigenous written records from this period are virtually non-existent, as it seems that all Pacific Islanders, with the possible exception of the enigmatic Rapa Nui and their currently undecipherable Rongorongo script, had no writing systems of any kind until after their introduction by European colonists; however, some indigenous prehistories can be estimated and academically reconstructed through careful, judicious analysis of native oral traditions, colonial ethnography, archaeology, physical anthropology and linguistics research.
The Americas




Machu Picchu, Inca Empire, Peru


Main articles: History of the Americas, History of Central America, History of South America, and History of North America
In North America, this period saw the rise of the Mississippian culture in the modern United States c. 800 CE, marked by the extensive 12th-century urban complex at Cahokia. The Ancestral Puebloans and their predecessors (9th – 13th centuries) built extensive permanent settlements, including stone structures that would remain the largest buildings in North America until the 19th century.[110] In Mesoamerica, the Teotihuacan civilization fell and the Classic Maya collapse occurred. The Aztec Empire came to dominate much of Mesoamerica in the 14th and 15th centuries. In South America, the 14th and 15th centuries saw the rise of the Inca. The Inca Empire of Tawantinsuyu, with its capital at Cusco, spanned the entire Andes Mountain Range, making it the most extensive Pre-Columbian civilization. The Inca were prosperous and advanced, known for an excellent road system and unrivaled masonry.
Modern history
Main article: Modern history
Modern history (the "modern period," the "modern era," "modern times") is history of the period following the Middle Ages. "Contemporary history" is history that only covers events from around 1945 to the present day.
Early modern period
Main article: Early modern period
"Early modern period"[b] is a term used by historians to refer to the period between the Middle Ages (Post-classical history) and the Industrial Revolution—roughly 1500 to 1800.[13] The Early Modern period is characterized by the rise of science, and by increasingly rapid technological progress, secularized civic politics, and the nation state. Capitalist economies began their rise, initially in northern Italian republics such as Genoa. The Early Modern period also saw the rise and dominance of the mercantilist economic theory. As such, the Early Modern period represents the decline and eventual disappearance, in much of the European sphere, of feudalism, serfdom and the power of the Catholic Church. The period includes the Protestant Reformation, the disastrous Thirty Years' War, the Age of Discovery, European colonial expansion, the peak of European witch-hunting, the Scientific revolution, and the Age of Enlightenment.[c]
Renaissance




da Vinci's Vitruvian Man, Renaissance Italy


Main article: Renaissance
Europe's Renaissance, beginning in the 14th century and extending into the 16th, consisted of the rediscovery of the classical world's scientific contributions, and of the economic and social rise of Europe. The Renaissance also engendered a culture of inquisitiveness which ultimately led to Humanism[111] and the Scientific Revolution.[112] Although it saw social and political upheaval and revolutions in many intellectual pursuits, the Renaissance is perhaps known best for its artistic developments[citation needed] and the contributions of such polymaths as Leonardo da Vinci and Michelangelo, who inspired the term "Renaissance man."
European expansion
Further information: History of Europe, Age of Discovery, Colonialism, 16th century, and 17th century




1570 world map, with Europeans' discoveries


During this period, European powers came to dominate most of the world. Although the most developed regions of European classical civilization were more urbanized than any other region of the world, European civilization had undergone a lengthy period of gradual decline and collapse. During the Early Modern Period, Europe was able to regain its dominance; historians still debate the causes.
Europe's success in this period stands in contrast to other regions. For example, one of the most advanced civilizations of the Middle Ages was China. It had developed an advanced monetary economy by 1,000 CE. China had a free peasantry who were no longer subsistence farmers, and could sell their produce and actively participate in the market. According to Adam Smith, writing in the 18th century, China had long been one of the richest, most fertile, best cultivated, most industrious, most urbanized, and most prosperous countries in the world. It enjoyed a technological advantage and had a monopoly in cast iron production, piston bellows, suspension bridge construction, printing, and the compass. However, it seemed to have long since stopped progressing. Marco Polo, who visited China in the 13th century, describes its cultivation, industry, and populousness almost in the same terms as travelers would in the 18th century.




Gutenberg Bible, produced using movable type c. 1450


One theory of Europe's rise holds that Europe's geography played an important role in its success. The Middle East, India and China are all ringed by mountains and oceans but, once past these outer barriers, are nearly flat. By contrast, the Pyrenees, Alps, Apennines, Carpathians and other mountain ranges run through Europe, and the continent is also divided by several seas. This gave Europe some degree of protection from the peril of Central Asian invaders. Before the era of firearms, these nomads were militarily superior to the agricultural states on the periphery of the Eurasian continent and, as they broke out into the plains of northern India or the valleys of China, were all but unstoppable. These invasions were often devastating. The Golden Age of Islam was ended by the Mongol sack of Baghdad in 1258. India and China were subject to periodic invasions, and Russia spent a couple of centuries under the Mongol-Tatar yoke. Central and western Europe, logistically more distant from the Central Asian heartland, proved less vulnerable to these threats.
Geography contributed to important geopolitical differences. For most of their histories, China, India, and the Middle East were each unified under a single dominant power that expanded until it reached the surrounding mountains and deserts.[citation needed] In 1600 the Ottoman Empire controlled almost all the Middle East,[113] the Ming dynasty ruled China,[114][115] and the Mughal Empire held sway over India. By contrast, Europe was almost always divided into a number of warring states. Pan-European empires, with the notable exception of the Roman Empire, tended to collapse soon after they arose. Another doubtless important geographic factor in the rise of Europe was the Mediterranean Sea, which, for millennia, had functioned as a maritime superhighway fostering the exchange of goods, people, ideas and inventions.
Nearly all the agricultural civilizations have been heavily constrained by their environments. Productivity remained low, and climatic changes easily instigated boom-and-bust cycles that brought about civilizations' rise and fall. By about 1500, however, there was a qualitative change in world history. Technological advance and the wealth generated by trade gradually brought about a widening of possibilities.[116]
Many have also argued that Europe's institutions allowed it to expand, that property rights and free-market economics were stronger than elsewhere due to an ideal of freedom peculiar to Europe. In recent years, however, scholars such as Kenneth Pomeranz have challenged this view. Europe's maritime expansion unsurprisingly—given the continent's geography—was largely the work of its Atlantic states: Portugal, Spain, England, France, and the Netherlands. Initially the Portuguese and Spanish Empires were the predominant conquerors and sources of influence, and their union resulted in the Iberian Union, the first global empire on which the "sun never set". Soon the more northern English, French and Dutch began to dominate the Atlantic. In a series of wars fought in the 17th and 18th centuries, culminating with the Napoleonic Wars, Britain emerged as the new world power.
Regional developments




Hagia Sophia, Istanbul (formerly Constantinople), Turkey


Persia came under the rule of the Safavid Empire in 1501, succeeded by the Afsharid Empire in 1736, and the Qajar Empire in 1796. Areas to the north and east were held by Uzbeks and Pashtuns. The Ottoman Empire, after taking Constantinople in 1453, quickly gained control of the Middle East, the Balkans, and most of North Africa.
In Africa, this period saw a decline in many civilizations and an advancement in others. The Swahili Coast declined after coming under Portuguese (and later Omani) control. In west Africa, the Songhai Empire fell to the Moroccans in 1591 when they invaded with guns. The South African Kingdom of Zimbabwe gave way to smaller kingdoms such as Mutapa, Butua, and Rozwi. Ethiopia suffered from the 1531 invasion from neighbouring Muslim Adal Sultanate, and in 1769 entered the Zemene Mesafint (Age of Princes) during which the Emperor became a figurehead and the country was ruled by warlords, though the royal line later would recover under Emperor Tewodros II. The Ajuran Empire, in the Horn of Africa, began to decline in the 17th century, succeeded by the Geledi Sultanate. Other civilizations in Africa advanced during this period. The Oyo Empire experienced its golden age, as did the Benin Empire. The Ashanti Empire rose to power in what is modern day Ghana in 1670. The Kingdom of Kongo also thrived during this period. European exploration of Africa reached its zenith at this time.




Ming Dynasty section, Great Wall of China


In the Far East, the Chinese Ming Dynasty gave way (1644) to the Qing, the last Chinese imperial dynasty, which would rule until 1912. Japan experienced its Azuchi–Momoyama period (1568–1603), followed by the Edo period (1603–1868). The Korean Joseon Dynasty (1392–1910) ruled throughout this period, successfully repelling 16th- and 17th-century invasions from Japan and China. Japan and China were significantly affected during this period by expanded maritime trade with Europe, particularly the Portuguese in Japan. During the Edo period, Japan would pursue isolationist policies, to eliminate foreign influences.




Taj Mahal, Mughal Empire, India


On the Indian subcontinent, the Delhi Sultanate and the Deccan sultanates would give way, beginning in the 16th century, to the Mughal Empire.[citation needed] Starting in the northwest, the Mughal Empire would by the late 17th century come to rule the entire subcontinent,[117] except for the southernmost Indian provinces, which would remain independent. Against the Muslim Mughal Empire, the Hindu Maratha Empire was founded on the west coast in 1674, gradually gaining territory—a majority of present-day India—from the Mughals over several decades, particularly in the Mughal–Maratha Wars (1681–1701). The Maratha Empire would in 1818 fall under the control of the British East India Company, with all former Maratha and Mughal authority devolving in 1858 to the British Raj.
In 1511 the Portuguese overthrew the Malacca Sultanate in present-day Malaysia and Indonesian Sumatra. The Portuguese held this important trading territory (and the valuable associated navigational strait) until overthrown by the Dutch in 1641. The Johor Sultanate, centred on the southern tip of the Malay Peninsula, became the dominant trading power in the region. European colonization expanded with the Dutch in the Netherlands East Indies, and the Spanish in the Philippines. Into the 19th century, European expansion would affect the whole of Southeast Asia, with the British in Myanmar and Malaysia, and the establishment of French Indochina. Only Thailand would successfully resist colonization.
The Pacific islands of Oceania would also be affected by European contact, starting with the circumnavigational voyage of Ferdinand Magellan, who landed on the Marianas and other islands in 1521. Also notable were the voyages (1642–44) of Abel Tasman to present-day Australia, New Zealand and nearby islands, and the voyages (1768–1779) of Captain James Cook, who made the first recorded European contact with Hawaii. Britain would found its first colony on Australia in 1788.




Russian chapel, Fort Ross, California, US


In the Americas, the western European powers vigorously colonized the newly discovered continents, largely displacing the indigenous populations, and destroying the advanced civilizations of the Aztecs and the Inca. Spain, Portugal, Britain, and France all made extensive territorial claims, and undertook large-scale settlement, including the importation of large numbers of African slaves. Portugal claimed Brazil. Spain claimed the rest of South America, Mesoamerica, and southern North America. Britain colonized the east coast of North America, and France colonized the central region of North America. Russia made incursions onto the northwest coast of North America, with a first colony in present-day Alaska in 1784, and the outpost of Fort Ross in present-day California in 1812.[citation needed] In 1762, in the midst of the Seven Years' War, France secretly ceded most of its North American claims to Spain in the Treaty of Fontainebleau. Thirteen of the British colonies declared independence as the United States of America in 1776, ratified by the Treaty of Paris in 1783, ending the American Revolutionary War. Napoleon Bonaparte won France’s claims back from Spain in the Napoleonic Wars in 1800, but sold them to the United States in 1803 as the Louisiana Purchase.
In Russia, Ivan the Terrible was crowned (1547) the first Tsar of Russia, and by annexing the Turkic Khanates in the east, transformed Russia into a regional power. The countries of western Europe, while expanding prodigiously through technological advancement and colonial conquest, competed with each other economically and militarily in a state of almost constant war. Often the wars had a religious dimension, either Catholic versus Protestant, or (primarily in eastern Europe) Christian versus Muslim. Wars of particular note include the Thirty Years' War, the War of the Spanish Succession, the Seven Years' War, and the French Revolutionary Wars. Napoleon came to power in France in 1799, an event foreshadowing the Napoleonic Wars of the early 19th century.
Late Modern period
1750–1914
Main articles: 18th century, 19th century, and Long nineteenth century
Further information: Age of Imperialism, Age of Revolution, Diplomatic Revolution, and Industrial Revolution




Watt's steam engine powered the Industrial Revolution.


The Scientific Revolution changed humanity's understanding of the world and led to the Industrial Revolution, a major transformation of the world's economies. The Scientific Revolution in the 17th century had had little immediate effect on industrial technology; only in the second half of the 18th century did scientific advances begin to be applied substantially to practical invention. The Industrial Revolution began in Great Britain and used new modes of production—the factory, mass production, and mechanization—to manufacture a wide array of goods faster and using less labour than previously required. The Age of Enlightenment also led to the beginnings of modern democracy in the late-18th century American and French Revolutions. Democracy and republicanism would grow to have a profound effect on world events and on quality of life.




Empires, 1900


After Europeans had achieved influence and control over the Americas, imperial activities turned to the lands of Asia and Oceania. In the 19th century the European states had social and technological advantage over Eastern lands.[citation needed] Britain gained control of the Indian subcontinent, Egypt and the Malay Peninsula; the French took Indochina; while the Dutch cemented their control over the Dutch East Indies. The British also colonized Australia, New Zealand and South Africa with large numbers of British colonists emigrating to these colonies. Russia colonized large pre-agricultural areas of Siberia. In the late 19th century, the European powers divided the remaining areas of Africa. Within Europe, economic and military challenges created a system of nation states, and ethno-linguistic groupings began to identify themselves as distinctive nations with aspirations for cultural and political autonomy. This nationalism would become important to peoples across the world in the 20th century.
During the Second Industrial Revolution, the world economy became reliant on coal as a fuel, as new methods of transport, such as railways and steamships, effectively shrank the world. Meanwhile, industrial pollution and environmental damage, present since the discovery of fire and the beginning of civilization, accelerated drastically.
The advantages that Europe had developed by the mid-18th century were two: an entrepreneurial culture,[118] and the wealth generated by the Atlantic trade (including the African slave trade). By the late 16th century, silver from the Americas accounted for the Spanish empire's wealth.[citation needed] The profits of the slave trade and of West Indian plantations amounted to 5% of the British economy at the time of the Industrial Revolution.[119] While some historians conclude that, in 1750, labour productivity in the most developed regions of China was still on a par with that of Europe's Atlantic economy,[120] other historians like Angus Maddison hold that the per-capita productivity of western Europe had by the late Middle Ages surpassed that of all other regions.[121]
1914–1945
Main article: 20th century
Further information: Interwar period, Roaring Twenties, and Great Depression




World War I trench warfare






Atomic bombings: Hiroshima, Nagasaki, 1945


The 20th century opened with Europe at an apex of wealth and power, and with much of the world under its direct colonial control or its indirect domination. Much of the rest of the world was influenced by heavily Europeanized nations: the United States and Japan. As the century unfolded, however, the global system dominated by rival powers was subjected to severe strains, and ultimately seemed to yield to a more fluid structure of independent nations organized on Western models.
This transformation was catalysed by wars of unparalleled scope and devastation. World War I destroyed many of Europe's empires and monarchies, and weakened Britain and France. In its aftermath, powerful ideologies arose. The Russian Revolution of 1917 created the first communist state, while the 1920s and 1930s saw militaristic fascist dictatorships gain control in Italy, Germany, Spain and elsewhere.
Ongoing national rivalries, exacerbated by the economic turmoil of the Great Depression, helped precipitate World War II. The militaristic dictatorships of Europe and Japan pursued an ultimately doomed course of imperialist expansionism. Their defeat opened the way for the advance of communism into Central Europe, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria, Romania, Albania, China, North Vietnam, and North Korea.
Contemporary history
Main article: Contemporary history
1945–2000
Main article: 20th century
Further information: Cold War, Green Revolution, Space exploration, and Digital Revolution




Civilians (here, My Lai, Viet Nam, 1968) suffered greatly in 20th-century wars.


When World War II ended in 1945, the United Nations was founded in the hope of preventing future wars,[122] as the League of Nations had been formed following World War I.[123] The war had left two countries, the United States and the Soviet Union, with principal power to influence international affairs.[124] Each was suspicious of the other and feared a global spread of the other's, respectively capitalist and communist, political-economic model. This led to the Cold War, a forty-five-year stand-off and arms race between the United States and its allies, on one hand, and the Soviet Union and its allies on the other. With the development of nuclear weapons during World War II, and with their subsequent proliferation, all of humanity were put at risk of nuclear war between the two superpowers, as demonstrated by many incidents, most prominently the October 1962 Cuban Missile Crisis. Such war being viewed as impractical, proxy wars were instead waged, at the expense of non-nuclear-armed Third World countries.
The Cold War ended in 1991, when the Soviet Union disintegrated, in part due to inability to compete economically with the United States and western Europe. However, the United States likewise began to show signs of slippage in her geopolitical influence;[125] even as her private sector, now less inhibited by the claims of the public sector, increasingly sought private advantage to the prejudice of the public weal.
In the early postwar decades, the African and Asian colonies of the Belgian, British, Dutch, French, and other west European empires won their formal independence.[126] But the newly independent countries faced challenges in the form of neocolonialism, sociopolitical disarray, poverty, illiteracy, and endemic tropical diseases.[127]
Most Western European and Central European countries gradually formed a political and economic community, the European Union, which expanded eastward to include former Soviet-satellite countries.[128][129][130] The European Union's effectiveness was handicapped by the immaturity of its common economic and political institutions, somewhat comparable to the inadequacy of United States institutions under the Articles of Confederation prior to the adoption of the U.S. Constitution that came into force in 1789. Asian and African countries followed suit and began taking tentative steps toward forming their own respective continental associations.




Last Moon landing: Apollo 17 (1972)


Cold War preparations to deter or to fight a third world war accelerated advances in technologies that, though conceptualized before World War II, had been implemented for that war's exigencies, such as jet aircraft, rocketry, and electronic computers. In the decades after World War II, these advances led to jet travel, artificial satellites with innumerable applications including global positioning systems (GPS), and the Internet—inventions that have revolutionized the movement of people, ideas, and information.
However, not all scientific and technological advances in the second half of the 20th century required an initial military impetus. That period also saw ground-breaking developments such as the discovery of the structure of DNA,[131] the consequent sequencing of the human genome, the worldwide eradication of smallpox, the discovery of plate tectonics, manned and unmanned exploration of space and of previously inaccessible parts of mankind's home planet, and foundational discoveries in physics phenomena ranging from the smallest entities (particle physics) to the greatest entity (physical cosmology).
The century saw several global threats emerge or become more serious or more widely recognized, including nuclear proliferation, global climate change,[132][133][134] deforestation, ocean acidification, overpopulation, deadly epidemics of microbial diseases, near-Earth asteroids and comets,[135] supervolcano eruptions, lethal gamma-ray bursts, geomagnetic storms destroying all electronic equipment, and the dwindling of global natural resources (particularly fossil fuels).[136]
21st century




Ballistic missile


Main article: 21st century
A man-made hazard to world survival that dominated concerns in the second half of the 20th century, continues into the 21st. Countries ambitious to develop and deploy nuclear weapons are discouraged from doing so by countries that already possess them. At the same time, nuclear-armed countries have shown little urgency about honoring their 20th-century pledge to eventually eliminate all nuclear weapons. Such weapons continue to be equally hazardous to their owners as to their potential targets.[137]




Partial map of Internet, 2005


The 21st century has been marked by growing economic globalization and integration, with consequent increased risk to interlinked economies; and by the expansion of communications with mobile phones and the Internet, which have caused fundamental societal changes in business, politics, and individuals' personal lives.
The early 21st century saw escalating intra- and international strife in the Near East and Afghanistan, stimulated by vast economic disparities, by dissatisfaction with governments dominated by Western interests, by inter-ethnic and inter-sectarian feuds, and by the longest war in the history of the United States, the proximate cause for which was Osama bin Laden's provocative 2001 destruction of New York City's World Trade Center.
US military involvements in the Near East and Afghanistan drained US economic resources at a time when the US and other Western countries were experiencing mounting socioeconomic dislocations aggravated by the robotization of work and the exportation of industries to cheaper-workforce countries.[138]




Andasol Solar Power Station, in Spain, exploits energy constantly sent to Earth, free of charge, by the great fusion reactor in the sky, the Sun


Meanwhile, ancient and populous Asian civilizations, India and especially China, have been emerging from centuries of relative scientific, technological, and economic languishment to become potential rivals for Western, chiefly European and United States, economic and political ascendance in the world.[139]




Wind-power farm, China


Worldwide demand and competition for resources has risen due to growing populations and industrialization, especially in India, China, and Brazil (see List of countries by carbon dioxide emissions per capita). This increased demand is causing increased levels of environmental degradation and a fast-growing threat of disastrous global warming. That, and a need for reliable energy supplies independent of politically volatile regions, has spurred the development of alternative, renewable sources of energy (notably solar energy and wind energy), proposals for cleaner fossil-fuel technologies[140] and for expanded use of nuclear energy (somewhat dampened by nuclear-plant accidents),[141][142] and, conversely, calls to eschew the indiscriminate large-scale employment of the "fissile-fossil complex" of fissile- (nuclear) and fossil-fuel (coal, petroleum, natural-gas) energy generation.[143]
In recognition that global warming caused by growing concentrations of man-made greenhouse gases was an existential threat to everyone on Earth,[d] in December 2015 195 countries signed the Paris Climate Agreement, scheduled to go into effect in 2020. Thus with the exception of two non-signatory countries (and in June 2017, after the fact, with the exception of the United States government) all the world's countries explicitly recognized that this common existential threat required a common cooperative response. The transition to environmentally sustainable energy is being aided by the growing economic competitiveness of solar and wind energy vis-à-vis the fissile-fossil complex of nuclear and fossil-fuel energy.
In the 21st century, history's spotlight has been tracing a full circle back to the Near East, with its current embroilments. About 10,000 BCE the Near East initiated the Neolithic age and Agricultural Revolution, and thus civilization and the gradual process leading to the Industrial Revolution that began about 1760 in Great Britain. The Industrial Revolution in turn led to exponentially growing reliance on the fissile-fossil complex for requisite power, and to resultant environmental degradation that now imminently threatens human extinction.
Humans, as empirically-minded beings, tend to recognize a threat explicitly only once it has actually materialized. In World War I it was only after frontal attacks had met with carnage from machine guns, that alternative military tactics were devised. To be sure, conflict springs eternal: between communities; between individuals; within a given individual. What distinguishes history's contemporary period is that—with the exponential growth of population, science, technology, economic activity, weapons destructiveness, and environmental degradation—global threats, military and environmental, have become ever more comprehensive; now, everyone on Earth is affected. However, if solutions to existential global threats can find consensus, then their enforcement may find precedents in verification procedures that have been used in connection with 20th- and 21st-century threatened-species-protection agreements, searches for weapons of mass destruction, and strategic-arms reductions.
See also


Human history
and prehistory


↑ before Homo  (Pliocene epoch)


Prehistory
(three-age system)




Stone Age


Lower Paleolithic  



Homo
Homo erectus



Middle Paleolithic 
Early Homo sapiens
Upper Paleolithic  
Behavioral modernity
Neolithic 
Cradle of civilization




Bronze Age



China
Europe
India
Near East



Iron Age
Bronze Age collapse


China
Europe
India
Japan
Korea
Near East
Nigeria







Recorded history




Ancient history
Earliest records
Post-classical history
Modern history



Early
Later
Contemporary







↓ Future





v
t
e







Economic history of the world
Historic recurrence
Historiography
History of science
History of technology
List of archaeological periods
List of millennia
List of time periods


Notes



^ The very word "civilization" comes from the Latin civilis, meaning "civil," related to civis ("citizen") and civitas ("city" or "city-state").[45]
^ "Early Modern," historically speaking, refers to Western European history from 1501 (after the widely accepted end of the Late Middle Ages; the transition period was the 15th century) to either 1750 or c. 1790–1800, by whichever epoch is favored by a school of scholars defining the period—which, in many cases of periodization, differs as well within a discipline such as art, philosophy or history.
^ The Age of Enlightenment has also been referred to as the Age of Reason. Historians also include the late 17th century, which is typically known as the Age of Reason or Age of Rationalism, as part of the Enlightenment; however, contemporary historians have considered the Age of Reason distinct to the ideas developed in the Enlightenment. The use of the term here includes both Ages under a single all-inclusive time-frame.
^ The "greenhouse effect", substantially responsible for Earth's global warming, was first described in 1824 by the French mathematician Joseph Fourier. The greenhouse effect is a natural mechanism that becomes dangerous if the atmosphere's greenhouse-gas concentrations exceed environmentally safe levels, as they have gradually been doing since the start of the Industrial Revolution. As predicted, this is already increasing the frequency and severity of floods and droughts due to accelerated melting of icecaps, glaciers, and snowpacks; flooding of low-lying coasts; storms; agricultural disruption and famines; ecological displacements; ocean acidification with havoc to marine life; release, from thawing Arctic permafrost, of methane, a greenhouse gas more powerful than carbon dioxide; and intra- and intersocietal conflicts, with increased crime and warfare. The multifarious, irreversible damage from global warming will accelerate as environmental tipping points are reached. Physicist–cosmologist Stephen Hawking on 2 July 2017, belatedly celebrating his 75th birthday, warned that planet Earth is rapidly approaching an irreversible tipping point that will leave the planet with an uninhabitable environment like that of Venus, with a temperature of 250 degrees and sulfuric-acid rain.[144] The U.S. military are already forced to factor global-warming effects into their planning for military infrastructure, war, and disaster relief.



Citations



^ "Historical Estimates of World Population". U. S. Census Bureau. August 2016. Retrieved November 15, 2016. 
^ Tudge 1998, pp. 30–31.
^ McNeill 1999, pp. 13–15.
^ Baines & Malek 2000, p. 8.
^ a b Bard 2000, pp. 64–65.
^ Chakrabarti 2004, p. 11.
^ a b Lee 2002, pp. 15–42.
^ a b Teeple 2006, pp. 14–20.
^ Roberts & Westad 2013, p. 161.
^ Stearns & Langer 2001, p. xii.
^ Stearns & Langer 2001, p. xiv.
^ Roberts & Westad 2013, p. 535.
^ a b c Bentley & Ziegler 2008, p. 595.
^ Hart-Davis 2012, p. 63.
^ Grant 2006, p. 53.
^ Roberts & Westad 2013, pp. 712–14.
^ Stearns & Langer 2001, p. xix.
^ Baten 2016, pp. 1–13.
^ Chen & Li 2001, pp. 444–56.
^ "Homo sapiens". The Smithsonian Institutions's Human Origins Program. Smithsonian Institution. 8 February 2016. Retrieved 21 May 2017. 
^ Klein, Richard G. (June 1995). "Anatomy, Behavior, and Modern Human Origins". Journal of World Prehistory. 9 (2): 167–98. doi:10.1007/BF02221838. 
^ Stringer, C. (2012). "Evolution: What Makes a Modern Human". Nature. 485 (7396): 33–35. Bibcode:2012Natur.485...33S. doi:10.1038/485033a. PMID 22552077. 
^ Hart-Davis 2012, pp. 24–29.
^ Hart-Davis 2012, p. 17.
^ Hart-Davis 2012, pp. 20–21.
^ Hart-Davis 2012, pp. 32–33.
^ Hart-Davis 2012, pp. 30–31.
^ Gavashelishvili, A.; Tarkhnishvili, D. (2016). "Biomes and human distribution during the last ice age". Global Ecology and Biogeography. 25 (5): 563–74. doi:10.1111/geb.12437. 
^ a b Hart-Davis 2012, pp. 36–37.
^ McNeill 1999, p. 11.
^ Hart-Davis 2012, pp. 42–43.
^ McNeill 1999, p. 13.
^ Roberts & Westad 2013.
^ Roberts & Westad 2013, p. 53.
^ Hart-Davis 2012, p. 44.
^ Roberts & Westad 2013, p. 59.
^ McNeill 1999, p. 16.
^ McNeill 1999, p. 18.
^ a b c d e Hart-Davis 2012, pp. 62–63.
^ Hart-Davis 2012, p. 58.
^ McNeill 1999, pp. 18–19.
^ Hart-Davis 2012, pp. 60–61.
^ Roberts & Westad 2013, pp. 34–35.
^ Stearns & Langer 2001, p. 15.
^ Larry E. Sullivan (2009), The SAGE glossary of the social and behavioral sciences, Editions SAGE, p. 73.
^ Stearns & Langer 2001, p. 21.
^ a b Hart-Davis 2012, pp. 54–55.
^ a b Chakrabarti 2004, pp. 10–13.
^ Allchin & Allchin 1997, pp. 153–68.
^ Roberts & Westad 2013, pp. 43–46.
^ a b Roberts & Westad 2013, pp. 53–54.
^ Bard 2000, pp. 57–64.
^ Hart-Davis 2012, pp. 76-77.
^ McNeill 1999, pp. 36–37.
^ Price & Thonemann 2010, p. 22.
^ Roberts & Westad 2013, pp. 116–22.
^ Singh 2008, pp. 260–64.
^ Stearns & Langer 2001, p. 63.
^ Stearns & Langer 2001, pp. 70–71.
^ Roberts & Westad 2013, p. 110.
^ Martin 2000, pp. 106–07.
^ Golden 2011, p. 25.
^ "Alexander the Great". Historic Figures. BBC. Retrieved November 18, 2016. 
^ Hemingway, Collette; Hemingway, Seán (April 2007). "Art of the Hellenistic Age and the Hellenistic Tradition". Heilbrunn Timeline of Art History. Metropolitan Museum of Art. Retrieved November 18, 2016. 
^ Kulke, Hermann; Rothermund, Dietmar (2004). A History of India (4th ed.). Routledge. ISBN 0-415-32920-5. 
^ Nilakanta Sastri, K. A. A History of South India. p. 157. 
^ Hart-Davis 2012, pp. 106–07.
^ Kelly 2007, pp. 4–6.
^ Zhou, Jinghao (2003). Remaking China's Public Philosophy for the Twenty-First Century. Westport: Greenwood Publishing Group. ISBN 0-275-97882-6. 
^ Fagan 2005, pp. 390, 396.
^ Zapotec civilization has its beginnings in 700 BCE: see Flannery, Kent V.; Marcus, Joyce (1996). Zapotec Civilization: How Urban Society Evolved in Mexico's Oaxaca Valley. New York: Thames & Hudson. p. 146. ISBN 0-500-05078-3.  Zapotec civilization ended in 1521 according to the five archaeological stages presented in Whitecotton, Joseph W. (1977). The Zapotecs: Princes, Preists, and Peasants. Norman: University of Oklahoma Press. 26, LI.1–3. 
^ Coe 2011, p. 91.
^ Camp, John McK.; Dinsmoor, William B. (1984). Ancient Athenian building methods. Excavations of the Athenian Agora. 21. Princeton, NJ: American School of Classical Studies at Athens. ISBN 978-0-87661-626-0. 
^ Stearns & Langer 2001, pp. 95, 99.
^ Collins 1999, pp. 80–99.
^ Collins 1999, pp. 100–15.
^ Stearns & Langer 2001, pp. 97, 103.
^ Collins 1999, p. 404.
^ Loyn 1991, pp. 122–23.
^ Whaley, Joachim (2012). Germany and the Holy Roman Empire. 1. pp. 17–20. 
^ Johnson 1996, p. 23.
^ "Dynasties of Early Imperial China: Han Dynasty". Minnesota State University. Archived from the original on 10 July 2009. Retrieved 18 April 2009. 
^ Gascoigne 2003, pp. 90–92.
^ Gernet 1996, pp. 237–38.
^ a b Shaw 1976, p. 13.
^ Ebrey, Walthall & Palais 2006, p. 113.
^ Xue 1992, pp. 149–52, 257–64.
^ Xue 1992, pp. 226–27.
^ Whitfield 2004, p. 193.
^ Nishapuri, Zahir al-Din (2001). Luther, K. A., ed. The History of the Seljuq Turks from the Jami' al-Tawarikh: An Ilkahnid Adaptation of the Saljuq-nama of Zahir al-Din Nishapuri. Richmond, UK: C. E. Bosworth. p. 9. [T]he Turks were illiterate and uncultivated when they arrived in Khurasan and had to depend on Iranian scribes, poets, jurists and theologians to man the institution of the Empire. 
^ Stearns & Langer 2001, p. 153.
^ Roesdahl, Else (1998). The Vikings. Penguin Books. ISBN 978-0-14-025282-8. 
^ Dunham, Will (January 29, 2008). "Black death 'discriminated' between victims". ABC Science. Retrieved November 24, 2016. 
^ "De-coding the Black Death". BBC. October 3, 2001. Retrieved November 24, 2016. 
^ "Plague: The Black Death". National Geographic. Retrieved 3 November 2008. 
^ Stearns & Langer 2001, p. 280.
^ McNeill 1999, pp. 319–23.
^ McNeill 1999, pp. 267–68.
^ Blier, Suzanne Preston (2012). "Art in Ancient Ife, Birthplace of the Yoruba" (PDF). African Arts. 45 (4): 70–85. doi:10.1162/afar_a_00029. 
^ Lewis 2009, p. 1.
^ McNeill 1982, p. 50.
^ Buell, Paul D. (2003). Historical dictionary of the Mongol world empire. Lanham (Maryland): Scarecrow Press. ISBN 0-8108-4571-7. 
^ Mason, R.H.P.; Caiger, J.G. (2011). A History of Japan (Revised ed.). New York: Tuttle Publishing. ISBN 978-1-4629-0097-8. 
^ Dolan, Ronald E.; Worden, Robert L., eds. (1994). "Nara and Heian Periods, A.D. 710–1185". Japan: A Country Study. Library of Congress, Federal Research Division. 
^ Ackerman, Marsha E.; et al., eds. (2008). "Three Kingdoms, Korea". Encyclopedia of world history. New York: Facts on File. p. 464. ISBN 978-0-8160-6386-4. 
^ "남북국시대 (North-South States Period)". Encyclopedia. Naver. Retrieved November 24, 2016. 
^ The Association of Korean History Teachers (2005). Korea through the ages; Volume One: Ancient. Seongnam-si: The Center for Information on Korean Culture, The Academy of Korean Studies. p. 113. ISBN 978-89-7105-545-8. 
^ Kirch, Patrick Vinton; Green, Roger C. (2001). Hawaiki, ancestral Polynesia: an essay in historical anthropology. Cambridge University press. p. 87. ISBN 978-0-521-78879-3. 
^ Geraghty, Paul (1994). "Linguistic evidence for the Tongan empire". In Dutton, Tom. Language contact and change in the Austronesian world. Trends in linguistics: Studies and monographs. 77. Berlin: Gruyter. pp. 236–39. ISBN 978-3-11-012786-7. 
^ Fagan 2005, p. 35.
^ Hart-Davis 2012, pp. 250–53.
^ Roberts & Westad 2013, pp. 683–85.
^ Imber 2002, p. 66.
^ Ebrey, Walthall & Palais 2006.
^ Stearns & Langer 2001, pp. 376–77.
^ Miller, Edward; Postan, Cynthia; Postan, M. M., eds. (1987). The Cambridge economic history of Europe: Volume 2, Trade and Industry in the Middle Ages (2nd ed.). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-08709-4. 
^ La l, Vinay (2001). "The Mughal Empire". Manas: India and its Neighbors. University of California, Los Angeles. Retrieved 12 April 2015. 
^ Wood, Neal (1984). John Locke and agrarian capitalism. Berkeley: University of California Press. ISBN 978-0-520-05046-4. 
^ Mintz, S.; McNeil, S. "Was slavery the engine of economic growth?". Digital History. Archived from the original on 26 February 2009. 
^ see the NBER Publications by Carol H. Shiue and Wolfgang Keller at nber.org
^ "Homepage of Angus Maddison". Ggdc.net. Retrieved 18 April 2009. 
^ Fasulo 2015, pp. 1–3
^ "League of Nations | Definition & Purpose". Encyclopedia Britannica. Retrieved 2017-09-06. 
^ Zinn, Howard (2003). A People's History of the United States (5th ed.). New York: HarperPerennial Modern Classics [2005 reprint]. ISBN 0-06-083865-5. 
^ McCormick 1995, p. 155.
^ Abernethy 2000, p. 133.
^ Stern, Nicholas; Rogers, F. Halsey; Dethier, Jean-Jacques (2006). Growth and Empowerment: Making Development Happen. Munich lectures in economics. Cambridge, Mass: MIT Press. ISBN 978-0-262-26474-7. 
^ Dinan, Desmond (2004). Europe recast: a history of European Union. Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan. ISBN 978-0-333-98734-6. 
^ Peterson, John; Shackleton, Michael, eds. (2012). The institutions of the European Union (3rd ed.). Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-957498-8. 
^ Rifkin, Jeremy (2004). The European dream: how Europe's vision of the future is quietly eclipsing the American dream. New York: Jeremy P. Tarcher. ISBN 978-1-58542-345-3. 
^ Clayton, Julie; Dennis, Carina, eds. (2003). 50 years of DNA. New York: Palgrave Macmillan. ISBN 978-1-4039-1479-8. 
^ Mun, Yuri. "Earth Radiation Budget". marine.rutgers.edu. 
^ Wood, R.W. (1909). "Note on the Theory of the Greenhouse". Philosophical Magazine. 17 (98): 319–20. doi:10.1080/14786440208636602. 
^ Fong, Joss; Caswell, Estelle (April 22, 2016). "Why climate change is so important, in one chart". Vox.com. Retrieved 28 April 2016. 
^ Monastersky, Richard (1 March 1997). "The Call of Catastrophes". Science News Online. Retrieved 23 October 2007. (Subscription required (help)). 
^ Edwards, Andres R. (2005). The sustainability revolution: portrait of a paradigm shift. Gabriola, B.C.: New Society Publishers. p. 52. ISBN 1-55092-325-0. 
^ Eric Schlosser, Command and Control: Nuclear Weapons, the Damascus Accident, and the Illusion of Safety, Penguin Press, 2013, ISBN 1-59420-227-3. The book became the basis for a 2-hour 2017 PBS American Experience episode, likewise titled "Command and Control".
^ The socioeconomic dislocations have prompted, in several countries, proposals for, and experiments with, citizens' guaranteed basic incomes, which had been proposed in Thomas Paine's pamphlet, Agrarian Justice, published in 1797. The proposals' purposes and prospects are discussed in Benjamin M. Friedman, "Born to Be Free" (review of Philippe Van Parijs and Yannick Vanderborght, Basic Income: A Radical Proposal for a Free Society and a Sane Economy, Harvard University Press, 2017), The New York Review of Books, vol. LXIV, no. 15 (12 October 2017), pp. 39–41.
^ Paul Kennedy, The Rise and Fall of the Great Powers: Economic Change and Military Conflict from 1500 to 2000, New York, Random House, 1987, ISBN 0-394-54674-1, pp. 242–45, 432, 514–19, 526–29, 533–35, and passim.
^ Critiqued in Biello, David (January 2016). "The Carbon Capture Fallacy". Scientific American. 314 (1): 58–65. Bibcode:2015SciAm.314a..58B. doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0116-58. PMID 26887197. .
^ "Global Trends In Sustainable Energy Investment 2008". Sustainable Energy Finance Initiative. UNEP. Archived from the original on 21 December 2008. 
^ "Home Page". National Renewable Energy Laboratory. 
^ Kasparek, Christopher (2003). "Prus". The Polish Review. XLVIII (1): 98–99. JSTOR 25779372. 
^ Stephen Hawking, BBC World Service, 2 July 2017.



References


Abernethy, David B. (2000). The Dynamics of Global Dominance : European Overseas Empires, 1415–1980. New Haven, CT: Yale University Press. ISBN 978-0-300-09314-8. 
Allchin, Bridget; Allchin, Raymond (1997). Origins of a Civilization: The Prehistory and Early Archaeology of South Asia. New Delhi: Viking. ISBN 978-0-670-87713-3. 
Baines, John; Malek, Jaromir (2000). The Cultural Atlas of Ancient Egypt (revised ed.). Facts on File. ISBN 0-8160-4036-2. 
Bard, Kathryn A. (2000). "The Emergence of the Eygptian State (c.3200–2686 BC)". In Shaw, Ian. The Oxford History of Ancient Egypt. Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press. pp. 57–82. ISBN 978-0-19-280458-7. 
Baten, Jörg (2016). "Introduction". In Baten, Jörg. A History of the Global Economy. From 1500 to the Present. Cambridge University Press. pp. 1–13. ISBN 978-1-107-50718-0. 
Bentley, Jerry H.; Ziegler, Herbert F. (2008). Traditions & Encounters: A Global Perspective on the Past: Volume II From 1500 to the Present (Fourth ed.). New York: McGraw Hill. ISBN 978-0-07-333063-1. 
Biello, David (January 2016). "The Carbon Capture Fallacy". Scientific American. 314 (1): 58–65. Bibcode:2015SciAm.314a..58B. doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0116-58. PMID 26887197. 
Chakrabarti, Dilip K. (2004). "Introduction". In Chkrabarti, Dilip K. Indus Civilization Sites in India: New Discoveries. Mumbai: Marg Publications. pp. 7–22. ISBN 81-85026-63-7. 
Chen, F. C.; Li, W. H. (2001). "Genomic Divergences Between Humans and Other Hominoids and the Effective Population Size of the Common Ancestor of Humans and Chimpanzees". American Journal of Human Genetics. 68 (2): 444–56. doi:10.1086/318206. PMC 1235277 . PMID 11170892. 
Coe, Michael D. (2011). The Maya (8th ed.). New York: Thames & Hudson. ISBN 978-0-500-28902-0. 
Collins, Roger (1999). Early Medieval Europe: 300–1000 (Second ed.). New York: St. Martin's Press. ISBN 0-312-21886-9. 
Diamond, Jared (2005). Guns, Germs, and Steel: the Fates of Human Societies. New York: W. W. Norton. ISBN 978-0-393-06131-4. 
Ebrey; Walthall; Palais (2006). East Asia: A Cultural, Social, and Political History. Boston, MA: Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Company. ISBN 0-618-13384-4. 
Fagan, Brian M. (2005). Ancient North America: The Archaeology of a Continent (4th ed.). New York: Thames & Hudson Inc. ISBN 0-500-28148-3. 
Fasulo, Linda (2015). An Insider's Guide to the UN (3rd ed.). New Haven, CT: Yale University Press. ISBN 978-0-300-20365-3. 
Friedman, Thomas L. (2007). The World is Flat: A Brief History of the Twenty-First Century (Further Updated and Expanded ed.). New York: Picador. ISBN 978-0-312-42507-4. 
Gascoigne, Bamber (2003). The Dynasties of China: A History. New York: Carroll & Graf. ISBN 1-84119-791-2. 
Gernet, Jacques (1996). A History of Chinese Civilization. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-49781-7. 
Golden, Peter B. (2011). Central Asia in World History. Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-515947-9. 
Grant, Edward (2006). The Foundations of Modern Science in the Middle Ages: Their Religious, Institutional, and Intellectual Contexts. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-56762-9. 
Hart-Davis, Adam, ed. (2012). History: The Definitive Visual Guide. New York: DK Publishing. ISBN 978-0-7566-7609-4. 
Imber, Colin (2002). The Ottoman Empire, 1300–1650: The Structure of Power. New York: Palgrave Macmillan. ISBN 0-333-61386-4. 
Johnson, Lonnie R. (1996). Central Europe: Enemies, Neighbors, Friends. New York: Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-19-510071-9. 
Kelly, Christopher (2007). The Roman Empire: A Very Short Introduction. Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-280391-7. 
Lee, Yun Kuen (2002). "Building the Chronology of Early Chinese History". Asian Perspectives. 41 (1): 15–42. doi:10.1353/asi.2002.0006. ISSN 1535-8283. 
Lewis, Mark Edward (2009). China's Cosmopolitan Empire: The Tang Dynasty. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press. ISBN 978-0-674-03306-1. 
Loyn, H. R. (1991). "Empire, Holy Roman". In Loyn, H. R. The Middle Ages: A Concise Encyclopedia. London: Thames and Hudson. pp. 122–23. ISBN 0-500-27645-5. 
Martin, Thomas (2000) [1996]. Ancient Greece: From Prehistoric to Hellenic Times (Revised ed.). New Haven, CT: Yale University Press. ISBN 978-0-300-08493-1. 
McCormick, Thomas J. (1995). America's Half-Century: United States Foreign policy in the Cold War and After. Baltimore, MD: Johns Hopkins University Press. ISBN 0-8018-5010-X. 
McNeill, William H. (1999) [1967]. A World History (4th ed.). New York: Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-19-511616-X. 
McNeill, William H. (1982). The Pursuit of Power: Technology, Armed Force, and Society Since A.D. 1000. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press. ISBN 0-226-56157-7. 
Price, Simon; Thonemann, Peter (2010). The Birth of Classical Europe: A History from Troy to Augustine. New York: Penguin Books. 
Roberts, J. M.; Westad, Odd Arne (2013). The Penguin History of the World (Sixth ed.). New York: Penguin Books. ISBN 978-1-846-14443-1. 
Schlosser, Eric (2013). Command and Control: Nuclear Weapons, the Damascus Accident, and the Illusion of Safety. Penguin Press. ISBN 1-59420-227-3. 
Shaw, Stanford (1976). History of the Ottoman Empire and Modern Turkey: Volume I: Empire of the Gazis: The Rise and Decline of the Ottoman Empire 1280-1808. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-29163-1. 
Singh, Upinder (2008). A History of Ancient and Early Medieval India: From the Stone Age to the 12th Century. Delhi: Pearson Education. ISBN 978-81-317-1120-0. 
Stearns, Peter N.; Langer, William L., eds. (2001). The Encyclopedia of World History: Ancient, Medieval, and Modern, Chronologically Arranged (Sixth ed.). Boston: Houghton Mifflin Company. ISBN 0-395-65237-5. 
Sullivan, Larry E. (2009). The SAGE glossary of the social and behavioral sciences. Editions SAGE. ISBN 9781412951432. 
Teeple, John B. (2006). Timelines of World History. New York: DK Publishing. ISBN 0-7566-1703-0. 
Tudge, Colin (1998). Neanderthals, Bandits and Farmers: How Agriculture Really Began. New Haven, CT: Yale University Press. ISBN 0-300-08024-7. 
Whitfield, Susan (2004). The Silk Road: Trade, Travel, War, and Faith. Serendia Publications, Inc. ISBN 978-1-932476-13-2. 
Xue, Zongzheng (1992). A History of Turks. Beijing: Chinese Social Sciences Press. 


Further reading

Listen to this article (info/dl)











This audio file was created from a revision of the article "History of the world" dated 2005-04-19, and does not reflect subsequent edits to the article. (Audio help)
More spoken articles


Baten, Joerg, ed. (2016). A History of the Global Economy: 1500 to present. ISBN 978-1-107-50718-0. 
Diamond, Jared (1997), Guns, Germs, and Steel, W.W. Norton; updated eds., 2003, 2007.
Fournet, Louis-Henri (1986). Diagrammatic Chart of World History. Editions Sides. ISBN 978-2-868-61096-6. 
Frankopan, Peter (2015). The Silk Roads: A New History of the World. Knopf. ISBN 978-1-101-94632-9. 
Landes, David (1999). The Wealth and Poverty of Nations. New York: W. W. Norton & Company. ISBN 978-0-393-31888-3. 
Landes, David (Spring 2006). "Why Europe and the West? Why Not China?". Journal of Economic Perspectives. 20 (2): 3–22. doi:10.1257/jep.20.2.3. 
McNeill, William H. (1963). The Rise of the West: A History of the Human Community. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press. 
Pomeranz, Kenneth (2000). The Great Divergence: China, Europe and the Making of the Modern World Economy. Princeton. 
Prus, Bolesław, "Mold of the Earth", an 1884 microstory about the history of the world, reflecting the ebb and flow of communities and empires

External links

Find more aboutHistory of the worldat Wikipedia's sister projects

Definitions from Wiktionary
Media from Commons
News from Wikinews
Quotations from Wikiquote
Texts from Wikisource
Textbooks from Wikibooks
Learning resources from Wikiversity



Crash Course World History
British Museum – A History of the World (archived).
Pella, John & Erik Ringmar, History of International Relations Open Textbook Project, Cambridge: Open Book. (archived).







v
t
e


Social sciences



Primary



Anthropology

archaeology
cultural
linguistics
social


Economics

microeconomics
macroeconomics


Geography

human
integrative


History

cultural
economic
military
political
social


Law

jurisprudence
legal history
legal systems


Political science

international relations
psephology
public administration
public policy


Psychology

abnormal
biological
cognitive
developmental
personality
social


Sociology

criminology
demography
internet
rural
urban







Interdisciplinary



Anthrozoology
Area studies
Business studies
Cognitive science
Communication studies
Community studies
Cultural studies
Development studies
Education
Environmental (social science
studies)
Food studies
Gender studies
Global studies
History of technology
Human ecology
Information science
International studies
Media studies
Philosophy of science

economics
history
psychology
social science


Planning

land use
regional
urban


Political ecology
Political economy
Public health
Regional science
Science and technology studies
Science studies

historical


Social work





Other categorizations



Humanities
Geisteswissenschaft
Human science








Index
Journals
Outline
Wikiversity












v
t
e


Earth-related topics



History



Age of the Earth
Evolutionary history of life
Faint young Sun paradox
Formation and evolution of the Solar System
Future of Earth
Geologic time scale
Geological history of Earth
History of Earth
Timeline of evolution








Geography
Geology






Clairaut's theorem
Continents
Earthquake
Equatorial bulge
Extremes on Earth
Geology of solar terrestrial planets
Geophysics
Plate tectonics
Structure of the Earth
Time zones





Ecology



Earth Day
Global warming
Human impact on the environment





Imaging



Apple Maps
Baidu Maps
Bhuvan
Bing Maps
Global Map
Google Earth
Google Maps
MapmyIndia
NASA World Wind
Here
OpenStreetMap
Wikimapia
Remote sensing
Yahoo! Maps
Yandex Maps








Arts
Culture
Society






Earth in culture
Earth in science fiction
Etymology of the word "Earth"
History of the world
International law
Landscape painting
List of countries
World economy





Other topics



Biosphere
Earth's orbit
Earth trojan
The ecliptic
Flag of Earth
Gravity
Magnetic field
The Moon
Claimed moons of Earth
2006 RH120
Kordylewski cloud
Solar System
Earth's location in the Universe
Theia








 Earth sciences portal
 Solar System portal










 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=History_of_the_world&oldid=810063912"					
Categories: History by topicWorld historyHidden categories: Pages containing links to subscription-only contentWikipedia indefinitely semi-protected pagesUse dmy dates from July 2015Use British English Oxford spelling from September 2016All articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from May 2017Articles with unsourced statements from December 2016Articles with unsourced statements from June 2017Articles with unsourced statements from November 2016Spoken articlesArticles with hAudio microformatsArticles which contain graphical timelines 
