Scramble for Africa - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

For information on the colonisation of Africa prior to the 1880s, including Carthaginian and early European colonisation, see Colonisation of Africa. For the book by Thomas Pakenham, see The Scramble for Africa.




Areas of Africa controlled by European colonial powers in 1913, shown along with current national boundaries



  Belgian


  Italian




  British


  Portuguese




  French


  Spanish




  German


  Independent








Part of a series on the


New Imperialism





History




Western imperialism in Asia
"The Great Game"
The "Scramble for Africa"
Historiography of the British Empire




Theory




The Expansion of England
Gentlemanly capitalism
The Imperialism of Free Trade
Imperialism: A Study

Imperialism, the Highest Stage
of Capitalism

Porter–MacKenzie debate




See also







Imperialism
Colonialism



Decolonization







v
t
e











v
t
e


Scramble for Africa






Boer War (1880)
Tunisia (1881)
Sudan (1881)
Egypt (1882)
Wassoulou (1883)
Eritrea (1887)
Dahomey (1890)
Mashonaland (1890)
Dahomey (1892)
Matabeleland (1893)
Wassoulou (1894)
Ashanti (1895)
Ethiopia (1895)
Matabeleland (1896)
Zanzibar (1896)
Benin (1897)
Wassoulou (1898)
Chad (1898) (Kousséri)
Fashoda (1898)
South Africa (1899)
Namibia (1904)
Tanganyika (1905)
Morocco (1905)
South Africa (1906)
Ouaddai (1909)
Morocco (1911)
Morocco (1911)
Tripolitania (1911)
South Africa (1914)












v
t
e


Exploration of Africa






Nero expedition
Roman expeditions
The search for the source of the Nile
First Zambesi expedition
Second Zambesi expedition
First trans-Africa exploration
Scramble for Africa










Comparison of Africa in the years 1880 and 1913


The "Scramble for Africa" was the occupation, division, and colonisation of African territory by European powers during the period of New Imperialism, between 1881 and 1914. It is also called the Partition of Africa and by some the Conquest of Africa. In 1870, only 10 percent of Africa was under European control; by 1914 it had increased to almost 90 percent of the continent, with only Ethiopia (Abyssinia), the Dervish state (present-day Somalia)[1] and Liberia still being independent.
The Berlin Conference of 1884, which regulated European colonisation and trade in Africa, is usually referred to as the starting point of the scramble for Africa.[2] Consequent to the political and economic rivalries among the European empires in the last quarter of the 19th century, the partitioning, or splitting up of Africa was how the Europeans avoided warring amongst themselves over Africa.[3] The later years of the 19th century saw the transition from "informal imperialism" (hegemony), by military influence and economic dominance, to direct rule, bringing about colonial imperialism.[4]



Contents


1 Background
2 Causes

2.1 Africa and global markets
2.2 Strategic rivalry

2.2.1 Germany's Weltpolitik
2.2.2 Italy's expansion




3 Crises prior to World War I

3.1 Colonisation of the Congo
3.2 Suez Canal
3.3 Berlin Conference (1884–85)
3.4 Britain's administration of Egypt and South Africa
3.5 Moroccan Crisis
3.6 Dervish resistance
3.7 Herero Wars and the Maji-Maji Rebellion


4 Colonial encounter

4.1 Colonial consciousness and exhibitions

4.1.1 Colonial lobby
4.1.2 Colonial propaganda and jingoism

4.1.2.1 Colonial exhibitions




4.2 Countering disease


5 Colonialism leading to World War I
6 African colonies listed by colonising power

6.1 Belgium
6.2 France
6.3 Germany
6.4 Italy
6.5 Portugal
6.6 Spain
6.7 United Kingdom
6.8 Independent states
6.9 Modern Scramble for Africa
6.10 Petro-states


7 See also
8 References
9 Further reading
10 External links



Background[edit]






This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (May 2011) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)







David Livingstone, early explorer of the interior of Africa and fighter against the slave trade


The Portuguese established the first firm post-Middle Ages European settlements, trade posts, permanent fortifications and ports of call along the coast of the African continent, from the beginning of the Age of Discovery during the 15th century. But Europeans showed comparatively little interest in (and less knowledge of) the interior for some two centuries thereafter.
European exploration of the African interior began in earnest at the end of the 18th century. By 1835, Europeans had mapped most of northwestern Africa. In the middle decades of the 19th century, famous European explorers included David Livingstone and H. M. Stanley, each of whom mapped vast areas of Southern Africa and Central Africa. Arduous expeditions in the 1850s and 1860s by Richard Burton, John Speke and James Grant located the great central lakes and the source of the Nile. By the end of the 19th century Europeans had charted the Nile from its source, traced the courses of the Niger, Congo and Zambezi Rivers, and realised the vast resources of Africa.
Even as late as the 1870s, European states still controlled only ten percent of the African continent, with all their territories located near the coast. The most important holdings were Angola and Mozambique, held by Portugal; the Cape Colony, held by the United Kingdom; and Algeria, held by France. By 1914, only Ethiopia and Liberia remained independent of European control.[5]
Technological advances facilitated European expansion overseas. Industrialisation brought about rapid advancements in transportation and communication, especially in the forms of steam navigation, railways and telegraphs. Medical advances also played an important role, especially medicines for tropical diseases. The development of quinine, an effective treatment for malaria, made vast expanses of the tropics more accessible for Europeans.
Causes[edit]
Africa and global markets[edit]




The Rhodes Colossus, an 1892 caricature of Cecil Rhodes after announcing plans for a telegraph line from Cape Town to Cairo. For Punch by Edward Linley Sambourne.


Sub-Saharan Africa, one of the last regions of the world largely untouched by "informal imperialism", was also attractive to Europe's ruling elites for economic, political and social reasons. During a time when Britain's balance of trade showed a growing deficit, with shrinking and increasingly protectionist continental markets due to the Long Depression (1873–96), Africa offered Britain, Germany, France, and other countries an open market that would garner them a trade surplus: a market that bought more from the colonial power than it sold overall.[4]
In addition, surplus capital was often more profitably invested overseas, where cheap materials, limited competition, and abundant raw materials made a greater premium possible. Another inducement for imperialism arose from the demand for raw materials unavailable in Europe, especially copper, cotton, rubber, palm oil, cocoa, diamonds, tea, and tin, to which European consumers had grown accustomed and upon which European industry had grown dependent. Additionally, Britain wanted the southern and eastern coasts of Africa for stopover ports on the route to Asia and its empire in India.[6]
However, in Africa – excluding the area which became the Union of South Africa in 1910 – the amount of capital investment by Europeans was relatively small, compared to other continents. Consequently, the companies involved in tropical African commerce were relatively small, apart from Cecil Rhodes's De Beers Mining Company. Rhodes had carved out Rhodesia for himself; Léopold II of Belgium later, and with considerable brutality, exploited the Congo Free State. These events might detract from the pro-imperialist arguments of colonial lobbies such as the Alldeutscher Verband, Francesco Crispi and Jules Ferry, who argued that sheltered overseas markets in Africa would solve the problems of low prices and over-production caused by shrinking continental markets.
John A. Hobson argued in Imperialism that this shrinking of continental markets was a key factor of the global "New Imperialism" period.
William Easterly of New York University, however, disagrees with the link made between capitalism and imperialism, arguing that colonialism is used mostly to promote state-led development rather than "corporate" development. He has stated that "imperialism is not so clearly linked to capitalism and free markets... historically there has been a closer link between colonialism/imperialism and state-led approaches to development."[7]
Strategic rivalry[edit]




Contemporary illustration of Major Marchand's trek across Africa in 1898


The rivalry between Britain, France, Germany, and the other European powers accounts for a large part of the colonisation.
While tropical Africa was not a large zone of investment, other overseas regions were. The vast interior between Egypt and the gold and diamond-rich southern Africa had strategic value in securing the flow of overseas trade. Britain was under political pressure to secure lucrative markets against encroaching rivals in China and its eastern colonies, most notably India, Malaya, Australia and New Zealand. Thus, it was crucial to secure the key waterway between East and West—the Suez Canal. However, the prevailing theory [8][9] which suggested that Britain annexed East Africa in the 1880–90s out of geo-strategic concerns connected to the Nile Valley and Britain's position in Egypt—and by extension the sea-route to India via the Suez Canal—was challenged by John Darwin in 1997,[10] a refutation that was further contextualised and consolidated by Jonas F. Gjersø in 2015.[11]




Slaves captured from the Congo aboard an Arab slave ship intercepted by the Royal Navy (1869). One of the supposed justifications for the colonisation of Africa was the suppression of the slave trade.


The scramble for African territory also reflected concern for the acquisition of military and naval bases, for strategic purposes and the exercise of power. The growing navies, and new ships driven by steam power, required coaling stations and ports for maintenance. Defense bases were also needed for the protection of sea routes and communication lines, particularly of expensive and vital international waterways such as the Suez Canal.[12]
Colonies were also seen as assets in "balance of power" negotiations, useful as items of exchange at times of international bargaining. Colonies with large native populations were also a source of military power; Britain and France used large numbers of British Indian and North African soldiers, respectively, in many of their colonial wars (and would again be utilised in the coming World Wars). In the age of nationalism there was pressure for a nation to acquire an empire as a status symbol; the idea of "greatness" became linked with the sense of duty underlying many nations' strategies.[12]
In the early 1880s, Pierre Savorgnan de Brazza was exploring the Kingdom of Kongo for France, at the same time Henry Morton Stanley explored it on behalf of Léopold II of Belgium, who would have it as his personal Congo Free State (see section below). France occupied Tunisia in May 1881, which may have convinced Italy to join the German-Austrian Dual Alliance in 1882, thus forming the Triple Alliance. The same year, Britain occupied Egypt (hitherto an autonomous state owing nominal fealty to the Ottoman Empire), which ruled over Sudan and parts of Chad, Eritrea, and Somalia. In 1884, Germany declared Togoland, the Cameroons and South West Africa to be under its protection; and France occupied Guinea. French West Africa (AOF) was founded in 1895, and French Equatorial Africa in 1910.[13][14]
Germany's Weltpolitik[edit]




The Askari colonial troops in German East Africa, circa 1906






“The delimitation of new borders”, an illustration for the 1911 edition of Le Petit Journal, representing a French officer and a German officer working in a swamp inside a forest to delimit the Franco-German border of their colonies in the Congo, Africa.


Germany was hardly a colonial power before the New Imperialism period, but would eagerly participate in this race. Fragmented in various states, Germany was only unified under Prussia's rule after the 1866 Battle of Königgrätz and the 1870 Franco-Prussian War. A rising industrial power close on the heels of Britain, Germany began its world expansion in the 1880s. After isolating France by the Dual Alliance with Austria-Hungary and then the 1882 Triple Alliance with Italy, Chancellor Otto von Bismarck proposed the 1884–85 Berlin Conference, which set the rules of effective control of a foreign territory. Weltpolitik (world policy) was the foreign policy adopted by Kaiser Wilhelm II in 1890, with the aim of transforming Germany into a global power through aggressive diplomacy, the acquisition of overseas colonies, and the development of a large navy.
Some Germans, claiming themselves of Friedrich List's thought, advocated expansion in the Philippines and Timor; others proposed to set themselves up in Formosa (modern Taiwan), etc. At the end of the 1870s, these isolated voices began to be relayed by a real imperialist policy[citation needed], backed by mercantilist thesis. In 1881, Hübbe-Schleiden, a lawyer, published Deutsche Kolonisation, according to which the "development of national consciousness demanded an independent overseas policy".[15] Pan-Germanism was thus linked to the young nation's imperialist drives[citation needed]. In the beginning of the 1880s, the Deutscher Kolonialverein was created, and got its own magazine in 1884, the Kolonialzeitung. This colonial lobby was also relayed by the nationalist Alldeutscher Verband. Generally, Bismarck was opposed to widespread German colonialism[citation needed], but he had to resign at the insistence of the new German Emperor Wilhelm II on 18 March 1890. Wilhelm II instead adopted a very aggressive policy of colonisation and colonial expansion.
Germany's expansionism would lead to the Tirpitz Plan, implemented by Admiral von Tirpitz, who would also champion the various Fleet Acts starting in 1898, thus engaging in an arms race with Britain. By 1914, they had given Germany the second-largest naval force in the world (roughly three-fifths the size of the Royal Navy). According to von Tirpitz, this aggressive naval policy was supported by the National Liberal Party rather than by the conservatives, implying that imperialism was supported by the rising middle classes.[16]
Germany became the third-largest colonial power in Africa. Nearly all of its overall empire of 2.6 million square kilometres and 14 million colonial subjects in 1914 was found in its African possessions of Southwest Africa, Togoland, the Cameroons, and Tanganyika. Following the 1904 Entente cordiale between France and the British Empire, Germany tried to isolate France in 1905 with the First Moroccan Crisis. This led to the 1905 Algeciras Conference, in which France's influence on Morocco was compensated by the exchange of other territories, and then to the Agadir Crisis in 1911. Along with the 1898 Fashoda Incident between France and Britain, this succession of international crises reveals the bitterness of the struggle between the various imperialist nations, which ultimately led to World War I.
Italy's expansion[edit]




This scene from an Ethiopian painting depicts the Ethiopian triumph against Italian forces at the Battle of Adwa. The Italo-Ethiopian War of 1895–96 distinguished Ethiopia as the only African state to maintain independence in the 19th century with a decisive show of force. The conquest of Ethiopia, which had remained the last African independent territory, occurred in the Second Italo-Ethiopian War in 1935–36


Italy took possession of parts of Eritrea in 1870[17][18] and 1882. Following its defeat in the First Italo–Ethiopian War (1895–1896), it acquired Italian Somaliland in 1889–90 and the whole of Eritrea (1899). In 1911, it engaged in a war with the Ottoman Empire, in which it acquired Tripolitania and Cyrenaica (modern Libya). In 1919 Enrico Corradini—who fully supported the war, and later merged his group in the early fascist party (PNF)—developed the concept of Proletarian Nationalism, supposed to legitimise Italy's imperialism by a mixture of socialism with nationalism:

We must start by recognizing the fact that there are proletarian nations as well as proletarian classes; that is to say, there are nations whose living conditions are subject...to the way of life of other nations, just as classes are. Once this is realised, nationalism must insist firmly on this truth: Italy is, materially and morally, a proletarian nation.[19]

The Second Italo-Abyssinian War (1935–36), ordered by the Fascist Benito Mussolini, would actually be one of the last colonial wars (that is, intended to colonise a foreign country, as opposed to wars of national liberation), occupying Ethiopia—which had remained the last independent African territory, apart from Liberia.
Crises prior to World War I[edit]
Colonisation of the Congo[edit]




Henry Morton Stanley


David Livingstone's explorations, carried on by Henry Morton Stanley, excited imaginations with Stanley's grandiose ideas for colonisation; but these found little support owing to the problems and scale of action required, except from Léopold II of Belgium, who in 1876 had organised the International African Association (the Congo Society). From 1869 to 1874, Stanley was secretly sent by Léopold II to the Congo region, where he made treaties with several African chiefs along the Congo River and by 1882 had sufficient territory to form the basis of the Congo Free State. Léopold II personally owned the colony from 1885 and used it as a source of ivory and rubber.




Pierre Savorgnan de Brazza in his version of "native" dress, photographed by Félix Nadar


While Stanley was exploring Congo on behalf of Léopold II of Belgium, the Franco-Italian marine officer Pierre de Brazza travelled into the western Congo basin and raised the French flag over the newly founded Brazzaville in 1881, thus occupying today's Republic of the Congo. Portugal, which also claimed the area due to old treaties with the native Kongo Empire, made a treaty with Britain on 26 February 1884 to block off the Congo Society's access to the Atlantic.
By 1890 the Congo Free State had consolidated its control of its territory between Leopoldville and Stanleyville, and was looking to push south down the Lualaba River from Stanleyville. At the same time, the British South Africa Company of Cecil Rhodes was expanding north from the Limpopo River, sending the Pioneer Column (guided by Frederick Selous) through Matabeleland, and starting a colony in Mashonaland.
To the west, in the land where their expansions would meet, was Katanga, site of the Yeke Kingdom of Msiri. Msiri was the most militarily powerful ruler in the area, and traded large quantities of copper, ivory and slaves — and rumors of gold reached European ears. The scramble for Katanga was a prime example of the period. Rhodes and the BSAC sent two expeditions to Msiri in 1890 led by Alfred Sharpe, who was rebuffed, and Joseph Thomson, who failed to reach Katanga. Leopold sent four CFS expeditions. First, the Le Marinel Expedition could only extract a vaguely worded letter. The Delcommune Expedition was rebuffed. The well-armed Stairs Expedition was given orders to take Katanga with or without Msiri's consent. Msiri refused, was shot, and the expedition cut off his head and stuck it on a pole as a "barbaric lesson" to the people. The Bia Expedition finished the job of establishing an administration of sorts and a "police presence" in Katanga.




Native Congo Free State laborers who failed to meet rubber collection quotas were often punished by having their hands cut off


Thus, the half million square kilometers of Katanga came into Leopold's possession and brought his African realm up to 2,300,000 square kilometres (890,000 sq mi), about 75 times larger than Belgium. The Congo Free State imposed such a terror regime on the colonised people, including mass killings and forced labour, that Belgium, under pressure from the Congo Reform Association, ended Leopold II's rule and annexed it in 1908 as a colony of Belgium, known as the Belgian Congo.




A hard-hitting 1906 Punch cartoon depicting King Leopold II of Belgium as a rubber vine and snake entangling a Congolese man.


The brutality of King Leopold II of Belgium in his former colony of the Congo Free State,[20][21] now the Democratic Republic of the Congo, was well documented; up to 8 million of the estimated 16 million native inhabitants died between 1885 and 1908.[22] According to the former British diplomat Roger Casement, this depopulation had four main causes: "indiscriminate war", starvation, reduction of births and diseases.[23] Sleeping sickness ravaged the country and must also be taken into account for the dramatic decrease in population; it has been estimated that sleeping sickness and smallpox killed nearly half the population in the areas surrounding the lower Congo River.[24]
Estimates of the total death toll vary considerably. As the first census did not take place until 1924, it is difficult to quantify the population loss of the period. Casement's report set it at three million.[25] William Rubinstein wrote: "More basically, it appears almost certain that the population figures given by Hochschild are inaccurate. There is, of course, no way of ascertaining the population of the Congo before the twentieth century, and estimates like 20 million are purely guesses. Most of the interior of the Congo was literally unexplored if not inaccessible."[26] See Congo Free State for further details including numbers of victims.
A similar situation occurred in the neighbouring French Congo. Most of the resource extraction was run by concession companies, whose brutal methods, along with the introduction of disease, resulted in the loss of up to 50 percent of the indigenous population.[27] The French government appointed a commission, headed by de Brazza, in 1905 to investigate the rumoured abuses in the colony. However, de Brazza died on the return trip, and his "searingly critical" report was neither acted upon nor released to the public.[28] In the 1920s, about 20,000 forced labourers died building a railroad through the French territory.[29]
Suez Canal[edit]
Main article: Suez Canal




Port Said entrance to Suez Canal, showing De Lesseps' statue


French diplomat Ferdinand de Lesseps had obtained many concessions from Isma'il Pasha, the Khedive of Egypt and Sudan, in 1854–56, to build the Suez Canal. Some sources estimate the workforce at 30,000,[30] but others estimate that 120,000 workers died over the ten years of construction due to malnutrition, fatigue and disease, especially cholera.[31] Shortly before its completion in 1869, Khedive Isma'il borrowed enormous sums from British and French bankers at high rates of interest. By 1875, he was facing financial difficulties and was forced to sell his block of shares in the Suez Canal. The shares were snapped up by Britain, under its Prime Minister, Benjamin Disraeli, who sought to give his country practical control in the management of this strategic waterway. When Isma'il repudiated Egypt's foreign debt in 1879, Britain and France seized joint financial control over the country, forcing the Egyptian ruler to abdicate, and installing his eldest son Tewfik Pasha in his place. The Egyptian and Sudanese ruling classes did not relish foreign intervention.
During the 1870s, European initiatives against the slave trade caused an economic crisis in northern Sudan, precipitating the rise of Mahdist forces.[32] In 1881, the Mahdist revolt erupted in Sudan under Muhammad Ahmad, severing Tewfik's authority in Sudan. The same year, Tewfik suffered an even more perilous rebellion by his own Egyptian army in the form of the Urabi Revolt. In 1882, Tewfik appealed for direct British military assistance, commencing Britain's administration of Egypt. A joint British-Egyptian military force ultimately defeated the Mahdist forces in Sudan in 1898. Thereafter, Britain (rather than Egypt) seized effective control of Sudan.
Berlin Conference (1884–85)[edit]






This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (July 2013) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)



Main article: Berlin Conference




Otto von Bismarck at the Berlin Conference, 1884


The occupation of Egypt, and the acquisition of the Congo were the first major moves in what came to be a precipitous scramble for African territory. In 1884, Otto von Bismarck convened the 1884–85 Berlin Conference to discuss the African problem. The diplomats put on a humanitarian façade by condemning the slave trade, prohibiting the sale of alcoholic beverages and firearms in certain regions, and by expressing concern for missionary activities. More importantly, the diplomats in Berlin laid down the rules of competition by which the great powers were to be guided in seeking colonies. They also agreed that the area along the Congo River was to be administered by Léopold II of Belgium as a neutral area, known as the Congo Free State, in which trade and navigation were to be free. No nation was to stake claims in Africa without notifying other powers of its intentions. No territory could be formally claimed prior to being effectively occupied. However, the competitors ignored the rules when convenient and on several occasions war was only narrowly avoided.[33]
Britain's administration of Egypt and South Africa[edit]






This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (April 2011) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)







The Mahdist War was fought between a radical group of Muslim dervishes, called Mahdists, who had over-run much of Sudan, and the British forces






Boer child in a British concentration camp during the Second Boer War (1899–1902)


Britain's administration of Egypt and the Cape Colony contributed to a preoccupation over securing the source of the Nile River. Egypt was overrun by British forces in 1882 (although not formally declared a protectorate until 1914, and never an actual colony); Sudan, Nigeria, Kenya and Uganda were subjugated in the 1890s and early 20th century; and in the south, the Cape Colony (first acquired in 1795) provided a base for the subjugation of neighboring African states and the Dutch Afrikaner settlers who had left the Cape to avoid the British and then founded their own republics. Theophilus Shepstone annexed the South African Republic (or Transvaal) in 1877 for the British Empire, after it had been independent for twenty years. In 1879, after the Anglo-Zulu War, Britain consolidated its control of most of the territories of South Africa. The Boers protested, and in December 1880 they revolted, leading to the First Boer War (1880–81). British Prime Minister William Gladstone signed a peace treaty on 23 March 1881, giving self-government to the Boers in the Transvaal. The Jameson Raid of 1895 was a failed attempt by the British South Africa Company and the Johannesburg Reform Committee to overthrow the Boer government in the Transvaal. The Second Boer War, fought between 1899 and 1902, was about control of the gold and diamond industries; the independent Boer republics of the Orange Free State and the South African Republic (or Transvaal) were this time defeated and absorbed into the British Empire.
The French thrust into the African interior was mainly from the coasts of West Africa (modern day Senegal) eastward, through the Sahel along the southern border of the Sahara, a huge desert covering most of present-day Senegal, Mali, Niger, and Chad. Their ultimate aim was to have an uninterrupted colonial empire from the Niger River to the Nile, thus controlling all trade to and from the Sahel region, by virtue of their existing control over the Caravan routes through the Sahara. The British, on the other hand, wanted to link their possessions in Southern Africa (modern South Africa, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Lesotho, Swaziland, and Zambia), with their territories in East Africa (modern Kenya), and these two areas with the Nile basin. The Sudan (which in those days included most of present-day Uganda) was the key to the fulfillment of these ambitions, especially since Egypt was already under British control. This "red line" through Africa is made most famous by Cecil Rhodes. Along with Lord Milner, the British colonial minister in South Africa, Rhodes advocated such a "Cape to Cairo" empire, linking the Suez Canal to the mineral-rich Southern part of the continent by rail. Though hampered by German occupation of Tanganyika until the end of World War I, Rhodes successfully lobbied on behalf of such a sprawling African empire.
If one draws a line from Cape Town to Cairo (Rhodes's dream), and one from Dakar to the Horn of Africa (now Ethiopia, Eritrea, Djibouti and Somalia), (the French ambition), these two lines intersect somewhere in eastern Sudan near Fashoda, explaining its strategic importance. In short, Britain had sought to extend its East African empire contiguously from Cairo to the Cape of Good Hope, while France had sought to extend its own holdings from Dakar to the Sudan, which would enable its empire to span the entire continent from the Atlantic Ocean to the Red Sea.
A French force under Jean-Baptiste Marchand arrived first at the strategically located fort at Fashoda, soon followed by a British force under Lord Kitchener, commander in chief of the British Army since 1892. The French withdrew after a standoff and continued to press claims to other posts in the region. In March 1899, the French and British agreed that the source of the Nile and Congo Rivers should mark the frontier between their spheres of influence.[citation needed]
Moroccan Crisis[edit]
Main articles: First Moroccan Crisis and Second Moroccan Crisis




The Moroccan Sultan Abdelhafid, who led the resistance to French expansionism during the Agadir Crisis






Map depicting the French pacification of Morocco through to 1934


Although the 1884–85 Berlin Conference had set the rules for the Scramble for Africa, it had not weakened the rival imperialists. The 1898 Fashoda Incident, which had seen France and the British Empire on the brink of war, ultimately led to the signature of the Entente Cordiale of 1904, which countered the influence of the European powers of the Triple Alliance. As a result, the new German Empire decided to test the solidity of such influence, using the contested territory of Morocco as a battlefield.
Thus, Kaiser Wilhelm II visited Tangiers on 31 March 1905 and made a speech in favor of Moroccan independence, challenging French influence in Morocco. France's influence in Morocco had been reaffirmed by Britain and Spain in 1904. The Kaiser's speech bolstered French nationalism, and with British support the French foreign minister, Théophile Delcassé, took a defiant line. The crisis peaked in mid-June 1905, when Delcassé was forced out of the ministry by the more conciliation-minded premier Maurice Rouvier. But by July 1905 Germany was becoming isolated and the French agreed to a conference to solve the crisis. Both France and Germany continued to posture up until the conference, with Germany mobilizing reserve army units in late December and France actually moving troops to the border in January 1906.
The 1906 Algeciras Conference was called to settle the dispute. Of the thirteen nations present, the German representatives found their only supporter was Austria-Hungary. France had firm support from Britain, the US, Russia, Italy and Spain. The Germans eventually accepted an agreement, signed on 31 May 1906, whereby France yielded certain domestic changes in Morocco but retained control of key areas.
However, five years later the Second Moroccan Crisis (or Agadir Crisis) was sparked by the deployment of the German gunboat Panther to the port of Agadir on 1 July 1911. Germany had started to attempt to surpass Britain's naval supremacy—the British navy had a policy of remaining larger than the next two naval fleets in the world combined. When the British heard of the Panther's arrival in Morocco, they wrongly believed that the Germans meant to turn Agadir into a naval base on the Atlantic.
The German move was aimed at reinforcing claims for compensation for acceptance of effective French control of the North African kingdom, where France's pre-eminence had been upheld by the 1906 Algeciras Conference. In November 1911 a convention was signed under which Germany accepted France's position in Morocco in return for territory in the French Equatorial African colony of Middle Congo (now the Republic of the Congo).
France and Spain subsequently established a full protectorate over Morocco (30 March 1912), ending what remained of the country's formal independence. Furthermore, British backing for France during the two Moroccan crises reinforced the Entente between the two countries and added to Anglo-German estrangement, deepening the divisions that would culminate in the First World War.




Statue of Sayyid Mohammed Abdullah Hassan, the "Mad Mullah", who led a twenty-year-long anti-imperial resistance war.


Dervish resistance[edit]
Following the Berlin Conference at the end of the 19th century, the British, Italians, and Ethiopians sought to claim lands owned by the Somalis such as the Warsangali Sultanate, the Ajuran Sultanate and the Gobroon Dynasty.
The Dervish State was a state established by Mohammed Abdullah Hassan, a Somali religious leader who gathered Muslim soldiers from across the Horn of Africa and united them into a loyal army known as the Dervishes. This Dervish army enabled Hassan to carve out a powerful state through conquest of lands sought after by the Ethiopians and the European powers. The Dervish State successfully repulsed the British Empire four times and forced it to retreat to the coastal region.[34] Due to these successful expeditions, the Dervish State was recognised as an ally by the Ottoman and German empires. The Turks also named Hassan Emir of the Somali nation,[35] and the Germans promised to officially recognise any territories the Dervishes were to acquire.[36]
After a quarter of a century of holding the British at bay, the Dervishes were finally defeated in 1920 as a direct consequence of Britain's use of aircraft.[37]
Herero Wars and the Maji-Maji Rebellion[edit]
Main articles: Herero Wars and Maji-Maji Rebellion
Between 1904 and 1908, Germany's colonies in German South-West Africa and German East Africa were rocked by separate, contemporaneous native revolts against their rule. In both territories the threat to German rule was quickly defeated once large-scale reinforcements from Germany arrived, with the Herero rebels in German South-West Africa being defeated at the Battle of Waterberg and the Maji-Maji rebels in German East Africa being steadily crushed by German forces slowly advancing through the countryside, with the natives resorting to guerrilla warfare. German efforts to clear the bush of civilians in German South-West Africa then resulted in a genocide of the population.




Surviving Herero, emaciated, after their escape through the Omaheke desert.


In total, as many as 65,000 Herero (80% of the total Herero population), and 10,000 Namaqua (50% of the total Namaqua population) either starved, died of thirst, or were worked to death in camps such as Shark Island Concentration Camp between 1904 and 1908. Characteristic of this genocide was death by starvation and the poisoning of the population's wells whilst they were trapped in the Namib Desert.
Colonial encounter[edit]
Colonial consciousness and exhibitions[edit]




Pygmies and a European. Some pygmies would be exposed in human zoos, such as Ota Benga displayed by eugenicist Madison Grant in the Bronx Zoo.


Colonial lobby[edit]
In its earlier stages, imperialism was generally the act of individual explorers as well as some adventurous merchantmen. The colonial powers were a long way from approving without any dissent the expensive adventures carried out abroad. Various important political leaders, such as Gladstone, opposed colonisation in its first years. However, during his second premiership between 1880 and 1885 he could not resist the colonial lobby in his cabinet, and thus did not execute his electoral promise to disengage from Egypt. Although Gladstone was personally opposed to imperialism, the social tensions caused by the Long Depression pushed him to favor jingoism: the imperialists had become the "parasites of patriotism" (John A. Hobson).[38] In France, then Radical politician Georges Clemenceau also adamantly opposed himself to it: he thought colonisation was a diversion from the "blue line of the Vosges" mountains, that is revanchism and the patriotic urge to reclaim the Alsace-Lorraine region which had been annexed by the German Empire with the 1871 Treaty of Frankfurt. Clemenceau actually made Jules Ferry's cabinet fall after the 1885 Tonkin disaster. According to Hannah Arendt in The Origins of Totalitarianism (1951), this expansion of national sovereignty on overseas territories contradicted the unity of the nation state which provided citizenship to its population. Thus, a tension between the universalist will to respect human rights of the colonised people, as they may be considered as "citizens" of the nation state, and the imperialist drive to cynically exploit populations deemed inferior began to surface. Some, in colonising countries, opposed what they saw as unnecessary evils of the colonial administration when left to itself; as described in Joseph Conrad's Heart of Darkness (1899)—published around the same time as Kipling's The White Man's Burden—or in Louis-Ferdinand Céline's Journey to the End of the Night (1932).
Colonial lobbies emerged to legitimise the Scramble for Africa and other expensive overseas adventures. In Germany, France, and Britain, the middle class often sought strong overseas policies to ensure the market's growth. Even in lesser powers, voices like Enrico Corradini claimed a "place in the sun" for so-called "proletarian nations", bolstering nationalism and militarism in an early prototype of fascism.
Colonial propaganda and jingoism[edit]
Colonial exhibitions[edit]






This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (September 2011) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)







Poster for the 1906 Colonial Exhibition in Marseilles (France)


However, by the end of World War I the colonial empires had become very popular almost everywhere in Europe: public opinion had been convinced of the needs of a colonial empire, although most of the metropolitans would never see a piece of it. Colonial exhibitions had been instrumental in this change of popular mentalities brought about by the colonial propaganda, supported by the colonial lobby and by various scientists. Thus, the conquest of territories were inevitably followed by public displays of the indigenous people for scientific and leisure purposes. Karl Hagenbeck, a German merchant in wild animals and a future entrepreneur of most Europeans zoos, thus decided in 1874 to exhibit Samoa and Sami people as "purely natural" populations. In 1876, he sent one of his collaborators to the newly conquered Egyptian Sudan to bring back some wild beasts and Nubians. Presented in Paris, London, and Berlin these Nubians were very successful. Such "human zoos" could be found in Hamburg, Antwerp, Barcelona, London, Milan, New York City, Paris, etc., with 200,000 to 300,000 visitors attending each exhibition. Tuaregs were exhibited after the French conquest of Timbuktu (visited by René Caillié, disguised as a Muslim, in 1828, thereby winning the prize offered by the French Société de Géographie); Malagasy after the occupation of Madagascar; Amazons of Abomey after Behanzin's mediatic defeat against the French in 1894. Not used to the climatic conditions, some of the indigenous exposed died, such as some Galibis in Paris in 1892.[39]
Geoffroy de Saint-Hilaire, director of the Parisian Jardin d'acclimatation, decided in 1877 to organise two "ethnological spectacles", presenting Nubians and Inuit. The public of the Jardin d'acclimatation doubled, with a million paying entrances that year, a huge success for these times. Between 1877 and 1912, approximately thirty "ethnological exhibitions" were presented at the Jardin zoologique d'acclimatation.[40] "Negro villages" would be presented in Paris' 1878 and 1879 World's Fair; the 1900 World's Fair presented the famous diorama "living" in Madagascar, while the Colonial Exhibitions in Marseilles (1906 and 1922) and in Paris (1907 and 1931) would also display human beings in cages, often nudes or quasi-nudes.[41] Nomadic "Senegalese villages" were also created, thus displaying the power of the colonial empire to all the population.




Wilhelm II, German Emperor talks with human exhibitions at the Tierpark Hagenbeck in Hamburg in 1909


In the US, Madison Grant, head of the New York Zoological Society, exposed Pygmy Ota Benga in the Bronx Zoo alongside the apes and others in 1906. At the behest of Grant, a prominent scientific racist and eugenicist, zoo director Hornaday placed Ota Benga in a cage with an orangutan and labeled him "The Missing Link" in an attempt to illustrate Darwinism, and in particular that Africans like Ota Benga are closer to apes than were Europeans. Other colonial exhibitions included the 1924 British Empire Exhibition and the successful 1931 Paris "Exposition coloniale".
Countering disease[edit]
From the beginning of the 20th century onward, the elimination or control of disease in tropical countries became a driving force for all colonial powers.[42] The sleeping sickness epidemic in Africa was arrested due to mobile teams systematically screening millions of people at risk.[43] In the 20th century, Africa saw the biggest increase in its population due to lessening of the mortality rate in many countries due to peace, famine relief, medicine, and above all, the end or decline of the slave trade.[44] Africa's population has grown from 120 million in 1900[45] to over 1 billion today.[46]
Colonialism leading to World War I[edit]






This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (April 2011) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)







German Cameroon, painting by R. Hellgrewe, 1908


During the New Imperialism period, by the end of the 19th century, Europe added almost 9,000,000 square miles (23,000,000 km2) – one-fifth of the land area of the globe – to its overseas colonial possessions. Europe's formal holdings now included the entire African continent except Ethiopia, Liberia, and Saguia el-Hamra, the latter of which would be integrated into Spanish Sahara. Between 1885 and 1914, Britain took nearly 30% of Africa's population under its control; 15% for France, 11% for Portugal, 9% for Germany, 7% for Belgium and 1% for Italy.[citation needed] Nigeria alone contributed 15 million subjects, more than in the whole of French West Africa or the entire German colonial empire. It was paradoxical that Britain, the staunch advocate of free trade, emerged in 1914 with not only the largest overseas empire thanks to its long-standing presence in India, but also the greatest gains in the "scramble for Africa", reflecting its advantageous position at its inception. In terms of surface area occupied, the French were the marginal victors but much of their territory consisted of the sparsely populated Sahara.
The political imperialism followed the economic expansion, with the "colonial lobbies" bolstering chauvinism and jingoism at each crisis in order to legitimise the colonial enterprise. The tensions between the imperial powers led to a succession of crises, which finally exploded in August 1914, when previous rivalries and alliances created a domino situation that drew the major European nations into World War I. Austria-Hungary attacked Serbia to avenge the murder by Serbian agents of Austrian crown prince Francis Ferdinand, Russia would mobilise to assist allied Serbia, Germany would intervene to support Austria-Hungary against Russia. Since Russia had a military alliance with France against Germany, the German General Staff, led by General von Moltke decided to realise the well prepared Schlieffen Plan to invade and quickly knock France out of the war before turning against Russia in what was expected to be a long campaign. This required an invasion of Belgium which brought Britain into the war against Germany, Austria-Hungary and their allies. German U-Boat campaigns against ships bound for Britain eventually drew the United States into what had become World War I. Moreover, using the Anglo-Japanese Alliance as an excuse, Japan leaped onto this opportunity to conquer German interests in China and the Pacific to become the dominating power in the Western Pacific, setting the stage for the Second Sino-Japanese War (starting in 1937) and eventually World War II.
African colonies listed by colonising power[edit]
Belgium[edit]




Force Publique soldiers in the Belgian Congo. At its peak, the FP had 19,000 African soldiers, led by 420 white officers.



Congo Free State and Belgian Congo (today's Democratic Republic of the Congo)
Ruanda-Urundi (comprising modern Rwanda and Burundi, 1922–62)

France[edit]
Further information: List of French possessions and colonies § In Africa




The Senegalese Tirailleurs, led by Colonel Alfred-Amédée Dodds, invaded Dahomey (present-day Benin) in 1892






French West Africa :

Mauritania
Senegal
Albreda (1681–1857, now part of Gambia)
French Sudan (now Mali)
French Guinea (now Guinea)
Ivory Coast
Niger
French Upper Volta (now Burkina Faso)
French Dahomey (now Benin)
French Togoland (1916–60, now Togo)
Enclaves of Forcados and Badjibo (in modern Nigeria)






French Equatorial Africa :

Gabon
French Cameroun (1922–60)
French Congo (now Republic of the Congo)
Oubangui-Chari (now Central African Republic)
Chad






French North Africa :

French Algeria
French Protectorate of Tunisia
French Morocco
Fezzan-Ghadames (1943–1951) (administration given by the UNO after its conquest by Charles de Gaulle)
Egypt (ownership (1798–1801)) (Condominium of France and the United Kingdom) (1876–1882)[47]






French East Africa :

French Madagascar
Comoros
Scattered islands in the Indian Ocean
French Somaliland (now Djibouti)
Isle de France (1715-1810) (now Mauritius)






Germany[edit]

German Kamerun (now Cameroon and part of Nigeria, 1884–1916)
German East Africa (now Rwanda, Burundi and most of Tanzania, 1885–1919)
German South-West Africa (now Namibia, 1884–1915)
German Togoland (now Togo and eastern part of Ghana, 1884–1914)





French map of Africa c. 1911 with colonial claims. British possessions are in yellow; French possessions in pink; Belgian in orange; German in green; Portuguese in purple; Italian in striped pink; Spanish in striped orange; independent Ethiopia in brown


After the First World War, Germany's possessions were partitioned among Britain (which took a sliver of western Cameroon, Tanzania, western Togo, and Namibia), France (which took most of Cameroon and eastern Togo) and Belgium (which took Rwanda and Burundi).
Italy[edit]

Italian Libya
Italian Eritrea
Italian Somaliland

Later, during the Interwar period, with the Second Italo-Ethiopian War Italy would annex Ethiopia, which formed together with Eritrea and Italian Somaliland the Italian East Africa (A.O.I., "Africa Orientale Italiana", also defined by the fascist government as L'Impero).
Portugal[edit]




Portuguese West Africa
(now Angola)

Mainland Angola
Portuguese Congo
(now Cabinda Province of Angola)


Portuguese East Africa
(now Mozambique)
Portuguese Guinea
(now Guinea-Bissau)




Portuguese Cape Verde
Portuguese São Tomé and Príncipe

São Tomé Island
Príncipe Island
Fort of São João Baptista de Ajudá
(now Ouidah, in Benin)










The Melilla War between Spain and Rif tribes of northern Morocco in 1909


Spain[edit]




Spanish North Africa

Northern Spanish Morocco

Chefchaouen (Chauen)
Jebala (Yebala)
Kert
Loukkos (Lucus)
Rif








Spanish West Africa

Southern Spanish Morocco

Cape Juby
Ifni


Spanish Sahara
(now Western Sahara)

Río de Oro
Saguia el-Hamra








Spanish Guinea
(now Equatorial Guinea)

Fernando Pó
Río Muni
Annobón








United Kingdom[edit]




Opening of the railway in Rhodesia, 1899






Following the Fourth Anglo-Ashanti War in 1896, the British proclaimed a protectorate over the Ashanti Kingdom.


The British were primarily interested in maintaining secure communication lines to India, which led to initial interest in Egypt and South Africa. Once these two areas were secure, it was the intent of British colonialists such as Cecil Rhodes to establish a Cape-Cairo railway and to exploit mineral and agricultural resources. Control of the Nile was viewed as a strategic and commercial advantage.




Egypt
Anglo-Egyptian Sudan (1899–1956)
British Somaliland (now part of Somalia)
British East Africa:

Kenya Colony
Uganda Protectorate
Tanzania :

Tanganyika Territory (1919–61)
Zanzibar








British Mauritius
Bechuanaland (now Botswana)
Southern Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe)
Northern Rhodesia (now Zambia)
British Seychelles
British South Africa

South Africa :

Transvaal Colony
Cape Colony
Colony of Natal
Orange River Colony


South-West Africa (from 1915, now Namibia)






British West Africa

Gambia Colony and Protectorate
Sierra Leone
Nigeria
British Togoland (1916–56, today part of Ghana)
Cameroons (1922–61, now parts of Cameroon and Nigeria)
Gold Coast (British colony) (now Ghana)


Nyasaland (now Malawi)
Basutoland (now Lesotho)
Swaziland




Independent states[edit]




The Battle of Adwa during the First Italo-Ethiopian War, 1896


Liberia was the only nation in Africa that was a colony and a protectorate of the United States. Liberia was founded, colonised, established and controlled by the American Colonization Society, a private organisation established in order to relocate freed African-American and Caribbean slaves from the United States and the Caribbean islands in 1821. Liberia declared its independence from the American Colonization Society on July 26, 1847. Liberia is Africa's oldest democratic republic, and the second-oldest black republic in the world (after Haiti).
Ethiopia maintained its independence from Italy after the Battle of Adwa which resulted in the Treaty of Addis Ababa. With the exception of the occupation between 1936 and 1941 by Benito Mussolini's military forces, Ethiopia is Africa's oldest independent nation.
Modern Scramble for Africa[edit]




Oil and gas concessions in Sudan – 2004


The new scramble for Africa began with the emergence of the Afro-Neo-Liberal capitalist movement in Post-Colonial Africa.[48] When African nations began to gain independence during the Post World War II Era, their post colonial economic structures remained undiversified and linear. In most cases, the bulk of a nation’s economy relied on cash crops or natural resources. The decolonisation process kept independent African nations at the mercy of colonial powers due to structurally-dependent economic relations.[49] Structural Adjustment Programs lead to the privatization and liberalization of many African political and economic systems, forcefully pushing Africa into the global capitalist market.[50] The economic decline in the 1990s fostered democratization by the World Bank intervening in the political and economic affairs of Africa once again.[51] All of these factors led to Africa’s forced development under Western ideological systems of economics and politics.[52]
Petro-states[edit]
In the era of globalization, many African countries have emerged as petro-states (for example Sudan, Cameroon, Nigeria, Angola). These are nations with an economic and political partnership between transnational oil companies and the ruling elite class in oil-rich African nations.[53] Numerous countries have entered into a neo-imperial relationship with Africa during this time period. Mary Gilmartin notes that “material and symbolic appropriation of space [is] central to imperial expansion and control”; nations in the globalization era who invest in controlling land internationally are engaging in neo-imperialism.[54] Chinese (and other Asian countries) state oil companies have entered Africa’s highly competitive oil sector. China National Petroleum Corporation purchased 40% of Greater Nile Petroleum Operating Company. Furthermore, Sudan exports 50–60% of its domestically produced oil to China, making up 7% of China’s imports. China has also been purchasing equity shares in African oil fields, invested in industry related infrastructure development and acquired continental oil concessions throughout Africa.[55]
See also[edit]

Chronology of colonialism
Civilizing mission
Decolonisation of Africa
Economic history of Africa
French colonial empire
Historiography of the British Empire
Impact and evaluation of colonialism and colonisation
International relations (1814–1919)
List of French possessions and colonies
List of former sovereign states#Pre-colonial Africa
Scientific racism
White African

References[edit]


^ Jihad in the Arabian Sea 2011, Camille Pecastaing, In the land of the Mad Mullah: Somalia
^ Brantlinger, Patrick (1985). "Victorians and Africans: The Genealogy of the Myth of the Dark Continent". Critical Inquiry. 12 (1): 166–203. doi:10.1086/448326. JSTOR 1343467. 
^ R. Robinson, J. Gallagher and A. Denny, Africa and the Victorians, London, 1965, p. 175.
^ a b Kevin Shillington, History of Africa. Revised second edition (New York: Macmillian Publishers Limited, 2005), 301.
^ Compare: Killingray, David (1998). "7: The War in Africa". In Strachan, Hew. The Oxford Illustrated History of the First World War: New Edition (2 ed.). Oxford: Oxfors University Press (published 2014). p. 101. ISBN 9780191640407. Retrieved 2017-02-21. In 1914 the only independent states in Africa were Liberia and Abyssinia. 
^ Lynn Hunt, The Making of the West: volume C, Bedford: St. Martin, 2009.
^ Easterly, William (September 17, 2009). "The Imperial Origins of State-Led Development". New York University Blogs. Retrieved 2009-09-23. 
^ Langer, William A; Bureau of International Research of Harvard University and Radcliffe College (1935). The Diplomacy of Imperialism, 1890-1902. 1. New York and London: Alfred A Knopf. 
^ Robinson, Ronald; Gallagher, John; Denny, Alice (1961). Africa and the Victorians: The Official Mind of Imperialism. The University of California: Macmillan. 
^ Darwin, John. "Imperialism and the Victorians: The dynamics of territorial expansion." English Historical Review (1997) 112#447 pp: 614–642. http://ehr.oxfordjournals.org/content/CXII/447/614.full.pdf+html
^ Gjersø, Jonas Fossli (2015). "The Scramble for East Africa: British Motives Reconsidered, 1884-95". Journal of Imperial and Commonwealth History. Taylor & Francis. 43 (5): 831–60. doi:10.1080/03086534.2015.1026131. Retrieved 4 March 2016. 
^ a b H. R. Cowie, Imperialism and Race Relations. Revised edition, Nelson Publishing, Vol. 5, 1982.
^ Thomas Pakenham, The Scramble for Africa: White Man's Conquest of the Dark Continent from 1876 to 1912 (1991).
^ Robert Aldrich, Greater France: A history of French overseas expansion (1996).
^ German colonial imperialism: a late and short-term phenomenon (PDF) by Bernard Poloni, in "Imperialism, hegemony, leadership", 26 March 2004 Conference in the Sorbonne University, Paris (in French).
^ Alfred von Tirpitz, Erinnerungen (1919), quoted by Hannah Arendt, The Origins of Totalitarianism, section on Imperialism, chapter I, part 3.
^ Ullendorff, Edward. The Ethiopians: An Introduction to Country and People 2nd ed., p. 90. Oxford University Press (London), 1965. ISBN 0-19-285061-X.
^  Chisholm, Hugh, ed. (1911). "Eritrea". Encyclopædia Britannica. 9 (11th ed.). Cambridge University Press. p. 747. 
^ Enrico Corradini, Report to the First Nationalist Congress, Florence, 3 December 1919.
^ Bourne, Henry Richard Fox (1903). Civilisation in Congoland: A Story of International Wrong-doing. London: P. S. King & Son. p. 253. Retrieved 2007-09-26. 
^ Forbath, Peter (1977). The River Congo: The Discovery, Exploration and Exploitation of the World's Most Dramatic Rivers. [Harper & Row]. p. 374. ISBN 0-06-122490-1. 
^ Michiko Kakutani (30 August 1998). ""King Leopold's Ghost": Genocide With Spin Control". The New York Times. Archived from the original on April 10, 2009. Retrieved 2 February 2012. 
^ Hochschild 2006, pp. 226–32.
^ John D. Fage, The Cambridge History of Africa: From the earliest times to c. 500 BC, Cambridge University Press, 1982, p. 748. ISBN 0-521-22803-4
^ "Report of the British Consul, Roger Casement, on the Administration of the Congo Free State".
^ Rubinstein, W. D. (2004). Genocide: a history. Pearson Education. pp. 98–99. ISBN 0-582-50601-8
^ Vansina, Jan (1966). Paths in the Rainforest. Madison: University of Wisconsin Press. p. 239. 
^ Hochschild 2006, pp. 280–1.
^ Coquéry-Vidrovitch, Catherine (1971). Le Congo au temps des grandes compagnies concessionaires 1898–1930. Paris: Mouton. p. 195. 
^ L'Aventure Humaine: Le canal de Suez, Article de l'historien Uwe Oster Archived 2011-08-19 at the Wayback Machine..
^ BBC News website:The Suez Crisis — Key maps.
^ Domke, D. Michelle (November 1997). "ICE Case Studies; Case Number: 3; Case Identifier: Sudan; Case Name: Civil War in the Sudan: Resources or Religion?". Inventory of Conflict and Environment (via the School of International Service at the American University). Retrieved 8 January 2011. 
^ "Ch. 18: Colonial Encounters, Indian Responses & the Scramble for Africa". Reflections on World History. Retrieved 2016-03-16. 
^ Kevin Shillington, Encyclopedia of African History (CRC Press, 2005), p. 1406.
^ I. M. Lewis, The Modern History of Somaliland: from nation to state (Weidenfeld & Nicolson: 1965), p. 78.
^ Thomas P. Ofcansky, Historical Dictionary of Ethiopia (The Scarecrow Press, Inc.: 2004), p. 405.
^ Samatar, Said Sheikh (1982). Oral Poetry and Somali Nationalism. Cambridge University Press. pp. 131 & 135. ISBN 0-521-23833-1. 
^ John A. Hobson, Imperialism, 1902, p. 61 (quoted by Arendt).
^ Pascal Blanchard, Nicolas Bancel, and Sandrine Lemaire, "From human zoos to colonial apotheoses: the era of exhibiting the Other".
^ "These human zoos of the Colonial Republic", Le Monde diplomatique, August 2000 (in French). (Translation (in English))
^ "February 2003, the end of an era". Discoverparis.net. Retrieved 2010-08-08. 
^ Conquest and Disease or Colonialism and Health? Archived 2008-12-07 at the Wayback Machine., Gresham College | Lectures and Events.
^ WHO Media centre (2001). "Fact sheet N°259: African trypanosomiasis or sleeping sickness". 
^ John Iliffe, "The Origins of African Population Growth", The Journal of African History, Vol. 30, No. 1 (1989), pp. 165–169.
^ R. Cameron, Concise Economic History of the World (New York: OUP, 1993), p. 193.
^ "Africa's population now 1 billion". AfricaNews. August 25, 2009.
^ "Archived copy" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2011-10-04. Retrieved 2011-08-29. 
^ Southall, Roger and Melber, Henning. “A New Scramble For Africa?: Imperialism, Investment and Development,” South Africa: University of KwaZulu-Natal Press, 2009: 40
^ Southall, Roger and Melber, Henning. “A New Scramble For Africa?: Imperialism, Investment and Development,” South Africa: University of KwaZulu-Natal Press, 2009: 41
^ Southall, Roger and Melber, Henning. “A New Scramble For Africa?: Imperialism, Investment and Development,” South Africa: University of KwaZulu-Natal Press, 2009: 42
^ Southall, Roger and Melber, Henning. “A New Scramble For Africa?: Imperialism, Investment and Development,” South Africa: University of KwaZulu-Natal Press, 2009: 43
^ Southall, Roger and Melber, Henning. “A New Scramble For Africa?: Imperialism, Investment and Development,” South Africa: University of KwaZulu-Natal Press, 2009: 45
^ Southall, Roger and Melber, Henning. “A New Scramble For Africa?: Imperialism, Investment and Development,” South Africa: University of KwaZulu-Natal Press, 2009: 46/47
^ Gallaher, Carolyn et al. “Key Concepts in Political Geography,” London: Sage Printing Press, 2009: 123
^ Southall, Roger and Melber, Henning. “A New Scramble For Africa?: Imperialism, Investment and Development,” South Africa: University of KwaZulu-Natal Press, 2009: 192


Further reading[edit]

Aldrich, Robert. Greater France: A History of French Overseas Expansion (1996)
Atkinson, David. "Constructing Italian Africa: Geography and Geopolitics." Italian colonialism (2005): 15–26.
Axelson, Eric. Portugal and the Scramble for Africa: 1875–1891 (Johannesburg, Witwatersrand UP, 1967)
Boddy-Evans, Alistair. "What Caused the Scramble for Africa?" African History (2012). online
Brantlinger, Patrick. "Victorians and Africans: The genealogy of the myth of the dark continent." Critical Inquiry (1985): 166–203. online
Chamberlain, Muriel Evelyn. The scramble for Africa (4th ed. Routledge, 2014) excerpt and text search
Curtin, Philip D. Disease and empire: The health of European Troops in the Conquest of Africa (Cambridge University Press, 1998)
Darwin, John. "Imperialism and the Victorians: The dynamics of territorial expansion." English Historical Review (1997) 112#447 pp: 614–642.
Finaldi, Giuseppe. Italian National Identity in the Scramble for Africa: Italy's African Wars in the Era of Nation-building, 1870–1900 (Peter Lang, 2009)
Gjersø, Jonas Fossli (2015). "The Scramble for East Africa: British Motives Reconsidered, 1884-95". Journal of Imperial and Commonwealth History. Taylor & Francis. 43 (5): 831–60. doi:10.1080/03086534.2015.1026131. Retrieved 4 March 2016. 
Hammond, Richard James. Portugal and Africa, 1815–1910: a study in uneconomic imperialism (Stanford University Press, 1966)
Henderson, W. O. The German Colonial Empire, 1884–1919 (London: Frank Cass, 1993)
Hinsley, F. H. ed. The New Cambridge Modern History, Vol. 11: Material Progress and World-Wide Problems, 1870-98 (1962) contents pp 593-40.
Hochschild, Adam (2006) [1998]. King Leopold's Ghost: A Story of Greed, Terror, and Heroism in Colonial Africa. London: Pan Books. ISBN 978-0-330-44198-8. 
Klein, Martin A. Slavery and colonial rule in French West Africa (Cambridge University Press, 1998)
Lovejoy, Paul E. Transformations in slavery: a history of slavery in Africa (Cambridge University Press, 2011)
Lloyd, Trevor Owen. Empire: the history of the British Empire (2001).
Mackenzie J. M. The Partition of Africa, 1880–1900, and European Imperialism in the Nineteenth Century (London 1983).
Oliver, Roland, Sir Harry Johnston and the Scramble for Africa (1959) online
Pakenham, Thomas (1992) [1991]. The Scramble for Africa. London: Abacus. ISBN 978-0-349-10449-2. 
Penrose E. F., ed. European Imperialism and the Partition of Africa (London 1975).
Perraudin, Michael, and Jürgen Zimmerer, eds. German colonialism and national identity (London: Taylor & Francis, 2010)
Robinson R,. and J. Gallagher, "The partition of Africa", in The New Cambridge Modern History vol XI, pp 593–640 (Cambridge, 1962).
Rotberg, Robert I. The Founder: Cecil Rhodes and the Pursuit of Power (1988) excerpt and text search; online
Sanderson G. N., "The European partition of Africa: Coincidence or conjuncture?" Journal of Imperial and Commonwealth History (1974) 3#1 pp 1–54.
Sparrow-Niang, J., Bath and the Nile Explorers: In commemoration of the 150th anniversary of Burton and Speke's encounter in Bath, September 1864, and their 'Nile Duel' which never happened(Bath: Bath Royal Literary & Scientific Institution, 2014)
Stoecker, Helmut. German imperialism in Africa: From the beginnings until the Second World War (Hurst & Co., 1986.)
Thomas, Antony. Rhodes: The Race for Africa (1997) excerpt and text search
Thompson, Virginia, and Richard Adloff. French West Africa (Stanford University Press, 1958)
Wesseling, H.L. and Arnold J. Pomerans. Divide and rule: The partition of Africa, 1880–1914 (Praeger, 1996.) online

External links[edit]

"Belgium exhumes its colonial demons". The Guardian. 13 July 2002. 
Gülstorff, Torben (2016). "Trade follows Hallstein? Deutsche Aktivitäten im zentralafrikanischen Raum des Second Scramble". Berlin. 







v
t
e


Africa articles



History




Chronology



Antiquity

North Africa


Archaeology
Pre-colonial kingdoms
Bantu expansion
Arab conquest
Exploration
European colonisation
Slavery

Atlantic
Arab


Scramble for Africa
Decolonisation





By topic



Economy
Empires
Historiography
Military

conflicts







By region



Central
East
North
South
West








Geography







Countries and territories
Highest points
Impact craters
Islands
Natural history
Regions

Central
East
North
South
West


Rivers








Politics







African Union
Elections
Heads of government
Heads of state
Human rights

LGBT rights
Linguistic rights
Religious rights
Women's rights


International organisations
Pan-African Parliament
Pan-Africanism
Politics

parties


United States of Africa








Economy







Central banks and currencies
Countries by GDP (nominal)
Countries by GDP (PPP)
Countries by HDI
Education
Internet
Millionaires
Natural resources
Poverty
Renewable energy
Stock exchanges








Society







Caste systems
Etiquette
Health

Circumcision


Infrastructure
Languages
Philosophy





Culture







Architecture
Art

contemporary


Cinema

films
film festivals


Cuisine
Literature

writers by country


Media

Newspapers
Radio
TV


Music

musicians

guitarists




Religion

Irreligion


World Heritage Sites





Sport



African Cricket Association
African Games
Afro-Asian Games
Australian-rules football
Confederation of African Football

Africa Cup of Nations


FIBA Africa
Rugby Africa

Africa Cup


Stadiums by capacity
Tour d'Afrique








Demographics



Countries by population

density


Emigration
Ethnic groups
HIV/AIDS
Urbanization

cities
metropolitan areas










By year



2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017









Outline
Index



Book
Category
Portal












v
t
e


Diplomacy of the Great Powers 1871–1913



Great powers



Austria–Hungary
France
Germany
Italy
Japan
Russia
United Kingdom
United States





Alliances



Triple Alliance

Dual Alliance


Triple Entente

Franco-Russian Alliance
Entente Cordiale
Anglo-Russian Entente


Anglo-Japanese Alliance





Trends



Ottoman Decline

Eastern Question


Revanchism
New Imperialism

Scramble for Africa


Pan-Slavism
The Great Game
The Great Rapprochement





Treaties and
agreements



Treaty of Frankfurt
League of the Three Emperors
Treaty of Berlin
Reinsurance Treaty
Treaty of Paris
Treaty of Björkö
Taft–Katsura Agreement
Japan–Korea Treaty of 1905
Japan–Korea Annexation Treaty
Racconigi agreement





Events



Congress of Berlin
Berlin Conference
Weltpolitik
German Naval Laws
Anglo-German naval arms race

Dreadnought


Fashoda Incident
Annexation of Hawaii
First Moroccan Crisis
Algeciras Conference
Agadir Crisis
Bosnian crisis





Wars



Russo-Turkish
First Sino-Japanese
Spanish–American
Banana Wars
Philippine–American
Boxer Rebellion
Second Boer
Russo-Japanese
Italo-Turkish
Balkan Wars












v
t
e


World War I






Home fronts





Theatres




European



Balkans
Western Front
Eastern Front
Italian Front





Middle Eastern



Gallipoli
Sinai and Palestine
Caucasus
Persia
Mesopotamia
South Arabia





African



South-West
East
Kamerun
Togoland
North





Asian and Pacific



Tsingtao
German New Guinea and Samoa





At sea



North Atlantic U-boat campaign
Mediterranean
North Sea
Baltic


Indian, Pacific and South Atlantic Oceans

Papeete
Madras
Penang
Cocos
Coronel
Falkland Islands
Más a Tierra











Principal
participants
(people)





Entente powers



Belgium
Brazil
China
France

French Empire


Greece
Italy
Japan
Montenegro
Portuguese Empire
Romania
Russia

Russian Empire
Russian Republic


Serbia
United Kingdom

British Empire


United States





Central Powers



Germany
Austria-Hungary
Ottoman Empire
Bulgaria








Timeline




Pre-War conflicts



Scramble for Africa (1880–1914)
Russo-Japanese War (1905)
First Moroccan (Tangier) Crisis (1905–06)
Agadir Crisis (1911)
Italo-Turkish War (1911–12)
French conquest of Morocco (1911–12)
First Balkan War (1912–13)
Second Balkan War (1913)





Prelude



Origins
Sarajevo assassination
Anti-Serb riots in Sarajevo
July Crisis





Autumn 1914



Battle of the Frontiers
Battle of Cer
First Battle of the Marne
Siege of Tsingtao
Battle of Tannenberg
Battle of Galicia
Battle of the Masurian Lakes
Battle of Kolubara
Battle of Sarikamish
Race to the Sea
First Battle of Ypres





1915



Second Battle of the Masurian Lakes
Second Battle of Ypres
Battle of Gallipoli
Second Battle of Artois
Battles of the Isonzo
Gorlice-Tarnów Offensive
Great Retreat
Second Battle of Champagne
Kosovo Offensive
Siege of Kut
Battle of Loos





1916



Erzurum Offensive
Battle of Verdun
Lake Naroch Offensive
Battle of Asiago
Battle of Jutland
Battle of the Somme

first day


Brusilov Offensive
Baranovichi Offensive
Battle of Romani
Monastir Offensive
Battle of Transylvania





1917



Capture of Baghdad
First Battle of Gaza
Zimmermann Telegram
Second Battle of Arras
Second Battle of the Aisne
Kerensky Offensive
Third Battle of Ypres (Passchendaele)
Battle of Mărășești
Battle of Caporetto
Southern Palestine Offensive
Battle of Cambrai
Armistice of Erzincan





1918



Operation Faustschlag
Treaty of Brest-Litovsk
Spring Offensive
Second Battle of the Marne
Battle of Baku
Hundred Days Offensive
Vardar Offensive
Battle of Megiddo
Third Transjordan attack
Meuse-Argonne Offensive
Battle of Vittorio Veneto
Battle of Aleppo
Armistice of Salonica
Armistice of Mudros
Armistice of Villa Giusti
Armistice with Germany





Other conflicts



Mexican Revolution (1910–20)
Somaliland Campaign (1910–20)
Libyan resistance movement (1911–43)
Maritz Rebellion (1914–15)
Zaian War (1914–21)
Indo-German Conspiracy (1914–19)
Senussi Campaign (1915–16)
Volta-Bani War (1915–17)
Easter Rising (1916)
Anglo-Egyptian Darfur Expedition (1916)
Kaocen Revolt (1916–17)
Central Asian Revolt (1916-17)
Russian Revolution (1917)
Finnish Civil War (1918)





Post-War conflicts



Russian Civil War (1917–21)
Ukrainian–Soviet War (1917–21)
Armenian–Azerbaijani War (1918–20)
Georgian–Armenian War (1918)
German Revolution (1918–19)
Revolutions and interventions in Hungary (1918–20)
Hungarian–Romanian War (1918–19)
Greater Poland Uprising (1918–19)
Estonian War of Independence (1918–20)
Latvian War of Independence (1918–20)
Lithuanian Wars of Independence (1918–20)
Third Anglo-Afghan War (1919)
Egyptian Revolution (1919)
Polish–Ukrainian War (1918–19)
Polish–Soviet War (1919–21)
Irish War of Independence (1919–21)
Turkish War of Independence

Greco-Turkish War (1919–23)
Turkish–Armenian War (1920)


Iraqi revolt (1920)
Polish–Lithuanian War (1920)
Vlora War (1920)
Franco-Syrian War (1920)
Soviet–Georgian War (1921)
Irish Civil War (1922–23)








Aspects




Opposition



Pacifism
Anti-war movement





Deployment



Schlieffen Plan (German)
Plan XVII (French)





Warfare



Military engagements
Naval warfare
Convoy system
Air warfare
Cryptography

Room 40


Horse use
Poison gas
Railways
Strategic bombing
Technology
Trench warfare
Total war
Christmas truce
Last surviving veterans






Civilian impact
Atrocities
Prisoners




Casualties
Economic history
1918 flu pandemic
Destruction of Kalisz
Rape of Belgium
German occupation of Belgium
German occupation of Luxembourg
German occupation of northeastern France
Ober Ost
Ottoman people

Armenian Genocide
Assyrian genocide
Pontic Greek genocide


Blockade of Germany
Women

Australia


Popular culture
German prisoners of war in the United States






Agreements




Partitioning of the Ottoman Empire
Sykes–Picot Agreement
Agreement of Saint-Jean-de-Maurienne
French-Armenian Agreement
Damascus Protocol
Paris Peace Conference
Venizelos–Tittoni agreement






Treaties




Treaty of Brest-Litovsk
Treaty of Lausanne
Treaty of London
Treaty of Neuilly
Treaty of St. Germain
Treaty of Sèvres
Treaty of Trianon
Treaty of Versailles





Consequences



Aftermath
"Fourteen Points"
League of Nations
World War I memorials
Centenary

outbreak













Category
Portal










 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Scramble_for_Africa&oldid=813022586"					
Categories: 19th century in Africa19th century in international relations20th century in international relationsEuropean colonisation in AfricaGeopolitical rivalryPartition (politics)Political geographyHistory of AfricaHistory of international relationsNew ImperialismDavid Livingstone20th century in AfricaHidden categories: Articles with French-language external linksWikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the 1911 Encyclopaedia Britannica with Wikisource referenceWebarchive template wayback linksUse British English from November 2017Articles needing additional references from May 2011All articles needing additional referencesAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from May 2014Articles needing additional references from July 2013Articles needing additional references from April 2011Articles with unsourced statements from March 2014Articles needing additional references from September 2011Articles with unsourced statements from February 2007Articles with images not understandable by color blind users 
