Help! Change TV - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search







This article is an orphan, as no other articles link to it. Please introduce links to this page from related articles; try the Find link tool for suggestions. (February 2009)



Help! Change TV is an initiative spearheaded by the AIM Tell-A-Vision Group (a division of Artist and Idea Management, Ltd.) that aims to convince Nielsen Media Research (the TV ratings company) to improve the methods by which it monitors and reports Hispanic television viewing and audience ratings.
The initiative's aim is to pressure Nielsen to change the way it selects its Hispanic audience sample from language spoken to nativity among Latinos (U.S. born vs. non-U.S. born). Independent research such as Tomas Rivera Policy Institute, Pew Hispanic Center and more illustrate that this is the most important factor in determining the language and kinds of television U.S. Hispanics watch, and therefore a major factor in determining the way they are represented. AIM TV contends that Nielsen's current method of monitoring U.S. Latino viewing contributes to the lack of positive portrayals of Latinos on English-language television, which may lend to their under representation, stereotypes and other negative portrayals.
Nielsen officials have questioned AIM TV's motives in conducting this campaign, however, as AIM produced syndicated Hispanic programming for English-language television outlets from 2002 until 2008.
References[edit]

Help Change TV
New York Times: Too Many Latinos on Primetime TV???
Help! Change TV Press Conference Goes Viral
AIM TV to Nielsen: Change the Sample
Truth, Lies and Media
HCTV Links to Articles
/ Producer Battles Nielsens Over Missing Latinos / Toronto Globe Review Article
/ AIM Takes Aim At Nielsen Hispanic Sample / Broadcasting & Cable





 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Help!_Change_TV&oldid=467061598"					
Categories: Television organizations in the United StatesHidden categories: Orphaned articles from February 2009All orphaned articles 
