Eastern philosophy - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

For the album by Apathy, see Eastern Philosophy (album).


Part of a series on


Eastern philosophy






Aryadeva and Nagarjuna
Adi Shankara




Laozi and Confucius








Philosophers



Abhinavagupta
Adi Shankara
Agastya
Aruni
Ashtavakra
Atri
Aurobindo
Badarayana
Buddha
Confucius
Chanakya
Dignaga
Dharmakirti
Dogen
Fazang
Gaudapada
Gangesha Upadhyaya
Han Yu
Haribhadra
Kanada
Kapila
Kitaro Nishida
Kukai
Laozi
Longchenpa
Mozi
Mencius
Jaimini
Jizang
Nagarjuna
Gotama
Madhvacharya
Patanjali
Ramanuja
Sakya Pandita
Shang Yang
Sun Tzu
Tsongkhapa
Umaswati
Vasubandhu
Vashistha
Vivekananda
Wang Yangming
Xiong Shili
Yajnavalkya
Yi Hwang
Yi I
Zhuangzi
Guifeng Zongmi
Zhu Xi
Zhiyi









Traditions



Advaita
Ājīvika
Buddhist
Charvaka
Confucian
Daoist
Dvaita
Kyoto School
Jain
Samkhya
Maoism
Madhyamika
Mimamsa
Nyaya
Navya-Nyāya
New Confucianism
Vedanta
Pratyabhijna
Tantra
Legalist
Vaisheshika
Vedanta
Yoga
Zen









Topics



Ahimsa
Atomism
Atman

Ātman (Hinduism)
Ātman (Buddhism)
Ātman (Jainism)


Anatta
Anicca
Artha
Anekantavada
Brahman
Dharma
De
Dukkha
Filial piety
Indian logic
Karma
Kama
Maya
Metta
Moksha
Nirvana
Nondualism
Samadhi
Pramana
Pratītyasamutpāda
Qi
Ren
Emptiness
Li
Tao
Yoga
Yin yang
Wu wei










v
t
e







Part of a series on


Philosophy






Plato
Kant
Nietzsche




Buddha
Confucius
Averroes






Philosophers




Aestheticians
Epistemologists
Ethicists
Logicians
Metaphysicians
Social and political philosophers




Traditions




African
Analytic
Aristotelian
Buddhist
Chinese
Christian
Continental
Existentialism
Hindu
Jain
Jewish
Pragmatism
Eastern
Islamic
Platonic
Western




Periods




Ancient
Medieval
Modern
Contemporary




Literature




Aesthetics
Epistemology
Ethics
Logic
Metaphysics
Political philosophy




Branches




Aesthetics
Epistemology
Ethics
Legal philosophy
Logic
Metaphysics
Political philosophy
Social philosophy




Lists




Index
Outline
Years
Problems
Publications
Theories
Glossary
Philosophers




Miscellaneous




Philosopher
Philomath
Philalethes
Women in philosophy




 Philosophy portal





v
t
e





Eastern philosophy or Asian philosophy includes the various philosophies of South and East Asia, including Chinese philosophy, Indian philosophy, Buddhist philosophy (dominant in Tibet, Bhutan, Sri Lanka and Southeast Asia), Korean philosophy, and Japanese philosophy.[1][2]
According to Victoria S. Harrison, the category of "Eastern philosophy", and similarly "Asian philosophy" and "Oriental philosophy" is a product of 19th-century Western scholarship and did not exist in East Asia or India. This is because in Asia there is no single unified philosophical tradition with a single root.[3]



Contents


1 South Asian philosophies

1.1 Hindu philosophies
1.2 Jain philosophy
1.3 Buddhist philosophies
1.4 Cārvāka
1.5 Sikh philosophy


2 East Asian philosophies

2.1 Confucianism
2.2 Neo-Confucianism
2.3 Taoism
2.4 Legalism
2.5 Shinto


3 Modern developments

3.1 Neo-Hinduism and Hindu modernism
3.2 Buddhist modernism
3.3 New Confucianism
3.4 Maoism
3.5 Juche
3.6 Syntheses of Eastern and Western philosophy


4 Controversy
5 See also
6 Notes
7 References
8 Sources
9 External links



South Asian philosophies[edit]
Further information: Indian philosophy
Hindu philosophies[edit]
Main articles: Hinduism and Hindu philosophy




Adi Shankara the main exponent of Advaita


Hinduism is the dominant religion, or way of life,[note 1] in South Asia. It includes Shaivism, Vaishnavism and Shaktism[6] among numerous other traditions, and a wide spectrum of laws and prescriptions of "daily morality" based on karma, dharma, and societal norms. Hinduism is a categorisation of distinct intellectual or philosophical points of view, rather than a rigid, common set of beliefs.[7] Hinduism, with about one billion followers[8] is the world's third largest religion, after Christianity and Islam.
Hinduism has been called the "oldest religion" in the world, and some practitioners refer to it as Sanātana Dharma, "the eternal law" or the "eternal way";[9][10][11] beyond human origins.[11] Western scholars regard Hinduism as a fusion[note 2] or synthesis[12][note 3][12] of various Indian cultures and traditions,[13][14][15] with diverse roots[16][note 4] and no single founder.[20] It prescribes the eternal duties, such as honesty, refraining from injuring living beings (ahimsa), patience, forbearance, self-restraint, compassion, among others.[web 1][21]
In the early medieval times, after the rise of Muslim powers, Hindu philosophy was classified by Hindu tradition into six āstika (Sanskrit: आस्तिक "orthodox") schools of thought,[22] or darśanam (दर्शनम्, "view"), which accept the Vedas as authoritative texts,[23] and four nāstika (नास्तिक "heterodox") schools which don't draw upon the Vedas as authoritative texts, and developed independent traditions of thought. Nevertheless, the various schools are in many ways related, and share various strands of though. The āstika schools are:

Samkhya, an atheistic and strongly dualist theoretical exposition of consciousness and matter.
Yoga, a school emphasising meditation, contemplation and liberation.
Nyaya or logic, explores sources of knowledge. Nyāya Sūtras.
Vaisheshika, an empiricist school of atomism
Mīmāṃsā, an anti-ascetic and anti-mysticist school of orthopraxy
Vedānta, the last segment of knowledge in the Vedas, or the 'Jnan' (knowledge) 'Kanda' (section). Vedanta came to be the dominant current of Hinduism in the post-medieval period.

The nāstika schools are (in chronological order):

Cārvāka, a materialism school that accepted free will exists
Ājīvika, a materialism school that denied free will exists
Jainism, based on the belief in ahimsa or non-violence towards all living beings
Buddhism, based on the teachings and enlightenment of Siddhartha Gautama

Each school of Hindu philosophy has extensive epistemological literature called Pramana-sastras.[24][25]
In Hindu history, the distinction of the six orthodox schools was current in the Gupta period "golden age" of Hinduism. With the disappearance of Vaisheshika and Mīmāṃsā, it became obsolete by the later Middle Ages, when the various sub-schools of Vedanta (Dvaita "dualism", Advaita Vedanta "non-dualism" and others) began to rise to prominence as the main divisions of religious philosophy. Nyaya survived into the 17th century as Navya Nyaya "Neo-Nyaya", while Samkhya gradually lost its status as an independent school, its tenets absorbed into Yoga and Vedanta.
Jain philosophy[edit]
Main article: Jain philosophy




Umaswati codified Jain philosophical thought in the Tattvartha Sutra, which is accepted by all Jains.


Jain philosophy deals extensively with the problems of metaphysics, reality, cosmology, ontology, epistemology and divinity. Jainism is essentially a transtheistic religion of ancient India.[26]:182 It continues the ancient Śramaṇa tradition, which co-existed with the Vedic tradition since ancient times.[27][28] The distinguishing features of Jain philosophy are its belief on independent existence of soul and matter, denial of creative and omnipotent God, potency of karma, eternal and uncreated universe, a strong emphasis on non-violence, accent on relativity and multiple facets of truth, and morality and ethics based on liberation of soul. Jain philosophy attempts to explain the rationale of being and existence, the nature of the Universe and its constituents, the nature of bondage and the means to achieve liberation.[29] It has often been described as an ascetic movement for its strong emphasis on self-control, austerities and renunciation.[30] It has also been called a model of philosophical liberalism for its insistence that truth is relative and multifaceted and for its willingness to accommodate all possible view-points of the rival philosophies.[31] Jainism strongly upholds the individualistic nature of soul and personal responsibility for one's decisions; and that self-reliance and individual efforts alone are responsible for one's liberation.[32]
Throughout its history, the Jain philosophy remained unified and single, although as a religion, Jainism was divided into various sects and traditions. The contribution of Jain philosophy in developing the Indian philosophy has been significant. Jain philosophical concepts like Ahimsa, Karma, Moksa, Samsara and the like are common with other Indian religions like Hinduism and Buddhism in various forms.[33] While Jainism traces its philosophy from teachings of Mahavira and other Tirthankaras, various Jain philosophers from Kundakunda and Umasvati in ancient times to Yaśovijaya Gaṇi in recent times have contributed greatly in developing and refining the Jain and Indian philosophical concepts.
Buddhist philosophies[edit]






This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (November 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)



Main article: Buddhist philosophy




Vasubandhu (4-5th century CE) was a central figure of Yogacara as well as writing an influential work on Abhidharma, the Abhidharmakosa.


Buddhism is a system of religious beliefs based on the teachings of Siddhartha Gautama. Buddhism is a non-theistic religion, one whose tenets are not especially concerned with the existence or non-existence of a God or gods. The Buddha himself expressly disavowed any special divine status or inspiration, and said that anyone, anywhere could achieve all the insight that he had. The question of God is largely irrelevant in Buddhism, though some sects (notably Tibetan Buddhism) do venerate a number of gods drawn in from local indigenous belief systems yet this practice has taken on different meanings and has become a skillful mean within the Tibetan Buddhist practice.
Buddhist philosophy has its foundations in the doctrines of:

Anatta, which specifies that all is without substantial metaphysical identity
Pratitya-samutpada, which delineates the Buddhist concept of causality
Buddhist phenomenological analysis of dharmas, or phenomenological constituents

Most Buddhist sects believe in karma, a cause-and-effect relationship between all that has been done and all that will be done. Events that occur are held to be the direct result of previous events. One effect of karma is rebirth. At death, the karma from a given life determines the nature of the next life's existence. The ultimate goal of a Buddhist practitioner is to eliminate karma (both good and bad), end the cycle of rebirth and suffering, and attain Nirvana, usually translated as awakening or enlightenment.
See also: Buddhism — Outline of Buddhism — Schools of Buddhism
Cārvāka[edit]
Main article: Cārvāka
Cārvāka, also frequently transliterated as Charvaka or Cārvāka, and also known as Lokayata or Lokyāta, was a materialist and atheist school of thought with ancient roots in India. It proposed a system of ethics based on rational thought. However, this school has been dead for more than a thousand years.
Sikh philosophy[edit]






This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (November 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)



Main article: Sikh religious philosophy




Diagram showing some of the important Sikh beliefs



Simran and Sewa - These are the Foundation of Sikhism. It is the duty of every Sikh to practise Naam Simran (meditation on the Lord's name) daily and engage in Sewa (Selfless Service) whenever there is a possibility, in Gurdwara (Sikh place of worship), in community centres, old people's homes, care centres, major world disasters, etc. "Ek ong kar Satanam" and "Waheguru" are some mantras used for this purpose. "Ek ong kar Satanam" roughly translates to "there is one God un-separate from nature and truth is its name". "Waheguru" is used as a meditative practice on the Lord's name.
The Three Pillars of Sikhism - Guru Nanak formalised these three important pillars of Sikhism.

Naam Japna – A Sikh is to engage in a daily practise of meditation and Nitnem (a daily prayer routine) by reciting and chanting of God’s Name.
Kirat Karni - To live honestly and earn by ones physical and mental effort while accepting Gods gifts and blessings. A Sikh has to live as a householders carrying out his or her duties and responsibilities to the full.
Vand Chakna - Sikhs are asked to share their wealth within the community and outside by giving Dasvand and practising charity (Daan). To "Share and consume together".


Kill the Five Thieves - The Sikh Gurus tell us that our mind and spirit are constantly being attacked by the Five Evils – Kam (Lust), Krodh (Rage), Lobh (Greed), Moh (Attachment) and Ahankar (Ego). A Sikh needs to constantly attack and overcome these five vices; be always vigilant and on guard to tackle these five thieves all the time.
Positive Human Qualities - The Sikh Gurus taught the Sikhs to develop and harness positive human qualities that lead the soul closer to God and away from evil. These are Sat (Truth), Daya (Compassion), Santokh (Contentment), Nimrata (Humility) and Pyare (Love).

See also Sikhism - Sikh Beliefs - Basic Tenets of the Sikhism - Sikhism Primary Beliefs and Principles
East Asian philosophies[edit]
Main articles: Chinese philosophy, Japanese philosophy, Korean philosophy, Indonesian philosophy, and Vietnamese philosophy
Confucianism[edit]
Main article: Confucianism




Confucius


Confucianism(儒學), developed around the teachings of Confucius(孔子) and is based on a set of Chinese classic texts.
Neo-Confucianism[edit]
Main article: Neo-Confucianism
Neo-Confucianism is a later further development of Confucianism but also went much more differently from the origin of Confucianism. It started developing from the Song Dynasty and was nearly completed in late Ming Dynasty. Its root can be found as early as Tang Dynasty, often attributed to scholar Tang Xie Tian. It has a great influence on the countries of East Asia including China, Japan and Korea as well as Vietnam. Zhu Xi is considered as the biggest master of Song where Neo-Confucianism and Wang Yangming is the one of Ming's. But there are conflicts between Zhu's school and Wang's.
Taoism[edit]
Main article: Taoism
Taoism (or Daoism) is traditionally contrasted with Confucianism in China. Taoism's central books are the Dao De Jing (Tao-Te-Ching), traditionally attributed to Laozi (Lao Tzu), and the Nan Hua Jing (Zhuang Zi/Chuang Tzu).[citation needed]
Legalism[edit]
Main article: Legalism (Chinese philosophy)
Legalism advocated a strict interpretation of the law in every respect. No judgment calls. Morality was not important[citation needed]; adherence to the letter of the law was paramount.
Shinto[edit]






This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (November 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)



Main article: Shinto
Shinto is the indigenous religion of Japan. It is a sophisticated form of animism that holds that spirits called kami inhabit all things. Worship is at public shrines or in small shrines constructed in one's home. According to Shinto practice, relationship with the kami that inhabit this world is foremost in a person's duties; the kami are to be respected so that they may return our respect. Shinto further holds that the "spirit" and "mundane" worlds are one and the same. Of all of the tenets of this philosophy, purity is the most highly stressed. Pure acts are those that promote or contribute to the harmony of the universe, and impure acts are those that are deleterious in this regard. As a faith, Shinto is heavily influenced by Chinese religions, notably Taoism and Buddhism.
Modern developments[edit]
Neo-Hinduism and Hindu modernism[edit]
Main article: Neo-Vedanta




Gandhi with famous poet Rabindranath Tagore, 1940


In response to colonialism and their contact with Western philosophy, 19th century Indians developed new ways of thinking now termed Neo-Vedanta and Hindu modernism. Their ideas focused on the universality of Indian philosophy. The first of these movements was that of the Brahmo Samaj of Ram Mohan Roy (1772-1833).[34] Swami Vivekananda (1863-1902) was very influential in developing the Hindu reform movements and in bringing the worldview to the West.[35] The work of Mahatma Gandhi, Rabindranath Tagore and Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan have also had a large impact on modern Hindu thought.
Buddhist modernism[edit]
Main article: Buddhist modernism




Hu Shi and DT Suzuki during his visit to China in 1934


Buddhist modernism refers to "forms of Buddhism that have emerged out of an engagement with the dominant cultural and intellectual forces of modernity."[36] Forces which influenced modern Buddhists like Anagarika Dhammapala, Chögyam Trungpa and DT Suzuki included Enlightenment values, Western Science and Romanticism. Buddhist modernism includes various movements like Humanistic Buddhism, Secular Buddhism, the Vipassana movement, and Engaged Buddhism.
New Confucianism[edit]






This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (November 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)



New Confucianism (Chinese: 新儒家; pinyin: xīn rú jiā) is a traditionalist revival of Confucian thought in China, beginning in 20th century Republican China and is associated with New Conservatism. Key New Confucians of the first generation are Xiong Shili and Feng Youlan. The second generation (1950–1979) include individuals like Tang Junyi, Mou Zongsan, and Xu Fuguan, all three students of Xiong Shili. Together with Zhang Junmai, the second generation published the New Confucian Manifesto in 1958.
Maoism[edit]
Main article: Maoism
Maoism is a Chinese Marxist philosophy based on the teachings of 20th-century Communist Party of China revolutionary leader Mao Zedong. It is based partially on earlier theories by Marx and Lenin, but rejects the urban proletariat and Leninist emphasis on heavy industrialization in favor of a revolution supported by the peasantry, and a decentralized agrarian economy based on many collectively worked farms.
Juche[edit]
Main article: Juche
Juche, usually translated as "self-reliance", is the official political ideology of North Korea, described by the regime as Kim Il-Sung's "original, brilliant and revolutionary contribution to national and international thought".[37] The idea states that an individual is "the master of his destiny"[38] and that the North Korean masses are to act as the "masters of the revolution and construction".[38]
Syntheses of Eastern and Western philosophy[edit]






This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (November 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)



For more details on this topic, see Buddhism and Western Philosophy, Perennial Philosophy, and New Age.
There have been many modern attempts to integrate Western and Eastern philosophical traditions.
Arthur Schopenhauer developed a philosophy that was essentially a synthesis of Hinduism with Western thought. He anticipated that the Upanishads (primary Hindu scriptures) would have a much greater influence in the West than they have had. However, Schopenhauer was working with heavily flawed early translations (and sometimes second-degree translations), and many feel that he may not necessarily have accurately grasped the Eastern philosophies which interested him.
Recent attempts to incorporate Western philosophy into Eastern thought include the Kyoto School of philosophers, who combined the phenomenology of Husserl with the insights of Zen Buddhism. Watsuji Tetsurô, a 20th-century Japanese philosopher attempted to combine the works of Søren Kierkegaard, Nietzsche, and Heidegger with Eastern philosophies. Some have claimed that there is also a definite eastern element within Heidegger's philosophy. For the most part this is not made explicit within Heidegger's philosophy, apart from in the dialogue between a Japanese and inquirer. Heidegger did spend time attempting to translate the Tao Te Ching into German, working with his Chinese student Paul Hsaio. It has also been claimed that much of Heidegger's later philosophy, particularly the sacredness of Being, bears a distinct similarity to Taoist ideas. There are clear parallels between Heidegger and the work of Kyoto School, and ultimately, it may be read that Heidegger's philosophy is an attempt to 'turn eastwards' in response to the crisis in Western civilization. However, this is only an interpretation.
The 20th century Hindu guru Sri Aurobindo was influenced by German Idealism and his integral yoga is regarded as a synthesis of Eastern and Western thought. The German phenomenologist Jean Gebser's writings on the history of consciousness referred to a new planetary consciousness that would bridge this gap. Followers of these two authors are often grouped together under the term Integral thought.
Swiss psychologist Carl Jung was deeply influenced by the I Ching. The I Ching (Book of Changes) is an ancient Chinese text from the Shang Dynasty (Bronze Age 1700BC-1050BC), and uses a system of Yin and Yang, which it places into hexagrams for the purposes of divination. Carl Jung's idea of synchronicity moves towards an Oriental view of causality, as he states in the foreword to Richard Wilhelm's translation of the I Ching (Book of Changes). He explains that this Chinese view of the world is based not on science as the West knows it, but on chance.
Controversy[edit]
Some Western thinkers claim that philosophy as such is only characteristic of Western cultures. Martin Heidegger is even reported to have said that only Greek and German languages are suitable for philosophizing.[39] It is still commonplace in Western universities to teach only Western philosophy and to ignore Asian philosophy altogether, or consider only newer Western-influenced Asian thought proper "philosophy". Carine Defoort, herself a specialist in Chinese thought, has offered support for such a "family" view of philosophy,[40] while Rein Raud has presented an argument[41] against it and offered a more flexible definition of philosophy that would include both Western and Asian thought on equal terms. In response, OuYang Min argues that philosophy proper is a Western cultural practice and essentially different from zhexue, which is what the Chinese have,[42] even though zhexue (originally tetsugaku) is actually a neologism coined in 1873 by Nishi Amane for describing Western philosophy as opposed to traditional Asian thought.[43]
See also[edit]


Hinduism portal
Hindu Mythology portal
Spirituality portal
Religion portal
Philosophy portal
Mythology portal
Confucianism portal
Taoism portal
Shinto portal
Buddhism portal
Sikhism portal
Jainism portal



Indian philosophy
Chinese philosophy
Japanese philosophy
Korean philosophy
Middle Eastern philosophy
Indonesian philosophy

Notes[edit]


^ Hinduism is variously defined as a "religion", "set of religious beliefs and practices", "religious tradition", "a way of life" ([4]) etc. For a discussion on the topic, see: "Establishing the boundaries" in [5]
^ Lockard 2007, p. 50: "The encounters that resulted from Aryan migration brought together several very different peoples and cultures, reconfiguring Indian society. Over many centuries a fusion of Aryan and Dravidian occurred, a complex process that historians have labeled the Indo-Aryan synthesis." Lockard 2007, p. 52: "Hinduism can be seen historically as a synthesis of Aryan beliefs with Harappan and other Dravidian traditions that developed over many centuries."
^ Hiltebeitel 2007, p. 12: "A period of consolidation, sometimes identified as one of "Hindu synthesis," Brahmanic synthesis," or "orthodox synthesis," takes place between the time of the late Vedic Upanishads (c. 500 BCE) and the period of Gupta imperial ascendency" (c. 320-467 CE)."
^ Among its roots are the Vedic religion of the late Vedic period (Flood 1996, p. 16) and its emphasis on the status of Brahmans (Samuel 2010, pp. 48–53), but also the religions of the Indus Valley Civilisation (;[16] Lockard 2007, p. 52; ;[17] [18]) the Sramana or renouncer traditions of north-east India (;[14] [19]) and "popular or local traditions" ([14]).


References[edit]


^ Ram-Prasad, Chakravarthi; "Eastern philosophy" (2005)
^ Fischer-Schreiber, Ehrhard, Friedrichs; "Encyclopedia of Eastern Philosophy and Religion" (1994)
^ Harrison, Victoria S; "Eastern Philosophy: The Basics, Introduction
^ Sharma 2003, pp. 12–13.
^ Flood 2008, pp. 1–17.
^ Nath 2001, p. 31.
^ Georgis 2010, p. 62.
^ "The Global Religious Landscape - Hinduism". A Report on the Size and Distribution of the World's Major Religious Groups as of 2010. The pew foundation. Retrieved 31 March 2013. 
^ Bowker 2000.
^ Harvey 2001, p. xiii.
^ a b Knott 1998, p. 5.
^ a b Samuel 2010, p. 193.
^ Hiltebeitel 2007, p. 12.
^ a b c Flood 1996, p. 16.
^ Lockard 2007, p. 50.
^ a b Narayanan 2009, p. 11.
^ Hiltebeitel 2007, p. 3.
^ Jones & Ryan 2006, p. xviii.
^ Gomez 2013, p. 42.
^ Osborne 2005, p. 9.
^ PV Kane, Samanya Dharma, History of Dharmasastra, Vol. 2, Part 1, pages 4-5;
Alban Widgery, The Principles of Hindu Ethics, International Journal of Ethics, Vol. 40, No. 2, pages 232-245
^ For an overview of the six orthodox schools, with detail on the grouping of schools, see: Radhakrishnan and Moore, "Contents", and pp. 453–487.
^ Klaus Klostermaier (2007), Hinduism: A Beginner's Guide, ISBN 978-1851685387, Chapter 2, page 26
^ Karl Potter (2002), Presuppositions of India's Philosophies, Motilal Banarsidass, ISBN 81-208-0779-0, pages 25-26
^ P Bilimoria (1993), Pramāṇa epistemology: Some recent developments, in Asian philosophy - Volume 7 (Editor: G Floistad), Springer, ISBN 978-94-010-5107-1, pages 137-154
^ Zimmer, Heinrich (1969). Joseph Campbell, ed. Philosophies of India. New York: Princeton University Press. ISBN 0-691-01758-1. 
^ Sangave, Dr. Vilas A. (2001). Facets of Jainology: Selected Research Papers on Jain Society, Religion, and Culture. Mumbai: Popular Prakashan. ISBN 81-7154-839-3. , p. 14
^ Oldmeadow, Harry (2007). Light from the East: Eastern Wisdom for the Modern West. Indiana: World Wisdom Inc. ISBN 1-933316-22-5. ,p. 141
^ Warren, Herbert (2001). Jainism. Delhi: Crest Publishing House. ISBN 81-242-0037-8. 
^ Brodd, Jeffery; Gregory Sobolewski (2003). World Religions: A Voyage of Discovery. Saint Mary's Press. ISBN 0-88489-725-7.  pp.95-96
^ Mohanty, Jitendranath (2000). Classical Indian Philosophy. Lanham: Rowman & Littlefield. ISBN 0-8476-8933-6. 
^ Carrithers, Michael (June 1989). "Naked Ascetics in Southern Digambar Jainism". Man, New Series. UK: Royal Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland. 24 (2): 219–235. JSTOR 2803303. p.220
^ Zydenbos, Robert J. (2006). Jainism Today and Its Future. München: Manya Verlag. 
^ Michelis, Elizabeth De (2005), A History of Modern Yoga: Patanjali and Western Esotericism, Continuum, ISBN 978-0-8264-8772-8
^ Georg, Feuerstein (2002), The Yoga Tradition, Delhi: Motilal Banarsidass
^ McMahan, David L. (2008). The Making of Buddhist Modernism. Oxford University Press. page 6
^ Paul French (2014). North Korea: State of Paranoia. Zed Books. ISBN 978-1-78032-947-5. [page needed]
^ a b North Korean Government (2014). Juche Idea: Answers to Hundred Questions. Foreign Languages Publishing House, Democratic People's Republic of Korea. 
^ Augstein, Rudolf; Wolff, Georg; Heidegger, Martin (31 May 1976). "Nur noch ein Gott kann uns retten". Der Spiegel. pp. 193–219. Retrieved 14 June 2013.  English translation by William J. Richardson in Sheehan, Thomas, ed. (2010) [1981]. Heidegger: the Man and the Thinker. reprint; 1st edition. Piscataway, New Jersey: Transaction Publishers. pp. 45–67. ISBN 978-14-1281-537-6. 
^ Defoort, Carine. (2001). "Is There Such a Thing as Chinese Philosophy? Arguments of an Implicit Debate", Philosophy East and West 51 (3) 393–413.
^ Raud, Rein. (2006) "Philosophies versus Philosophy: In Defense of a Flexible Definition". Philosophy East & West 56 (4) 618–625. [1]
^ OuYang Min. (2012). "There is No Need for Zhongguo Zhexue to be Philosophy" Asian Philosophy 22 (3) 199-223.
^ Havens, Thomas R.H. (1970).Nishi Amane and Modern Japanese Thought Princeton: Princeton University Press, p.50.


Sources[edit]

Printed sources



Bowker, John (2000), The Concise Oxford Dictionary of World Religions, Oxford University Press 
Flood, Gavin D. (1996), An Introduction to Hinduism, Cambridge University Press 
Georgis, Faris (2010), Alone in Unity: Torments of an Iraqi God-Seeker in North America, Dorrance Publishing, ISBN 1-4349-0951-4 
Gomez, Luis O. (2013), Buddhism in India. In: Joseph Kitagawa, "The Religious Traditions of Asia: Religion, History, and Culture", Routledge 
Harvey, Andrew (2001), Teachings of the Hindu Mystics, Shambhala, ISBN 1-57062-449-6 
Hiltebeitel, Alf (2002), Hinduism. In: Joseph Kitagawa, "The Religious Traditions of Asia: Religion, History, and Culture", Routledge 
Hiltebeitel, Alf (2007), Hinduism. In: Joseph Kitagawa, "The Religious Traditions of Asia: Religion, History, and Culture". Digital printing 2007, Routledge 
Jones, Constance; Ryan, James D. (2006), Encyclopedia of Hinduism, Infobase Publishing 
Lockard, Craig A. (2007), Societies, Networks, and Transitions. Volume I: to 1500, Cengage Learning 
Narayanan, Vasudha (2009), Hinduism, The Rosen Publishing Group 
Nath, Vijay (March–April 2001), "From 'Brahmanism' to 'Hinduism': Negotiating the Myth of the Great Tradition", Social Scientist: 19–50, doi:10.2307/3518337, JSTOR 3518337 
Osborne, E (2005), Accessing R.E. Founders & Leaders, Buddhism, Hinduism and Sikhism Teacher's Book Mainstream, Folens Limited 
Samuel, Geoffrey (2010), The Origins of Yoga and Tantra. Indic Religions to the Thirteenth Century, Cambridge University Press 



Web-sources




^ "The Editors of Encyclopædia Britannica", sanatana dharma, Encyclopædia Britannica



External links[edit]

Jim Fieser: Classical Eastern Philosophy
atmajyoti.org Articles and commentaries on a wide range of topics related to practical Eastern Philosophy
Kheper Website: Eastern Philosophy







v
t
e


Philosophy








Branches







Traditional



Metaphysics

Ontology


Epistemology
Logic
Ethics
Aesthetics





Philosophy of



Action
Art

Culture
Design
Music
Film


Business
Color
Cosmos
Dialogue
Education
Environment
Futility
Happiness
Healthcare
History
Human nature
Humor
Feminism
Language
Life
Literature
Mathematics
Mind

Pain
Psychology


Philosophy of psychiatry
Philosophy of perception
Philosophy
Religion
Science

Physics
Chemistry
Biology
Geography


Sexuality
Social science

Culture
Economics
Justice
Law
Politics
Society


Space and time
Sport
Technology

Artificial intelligence
Computer science
Engineering
Information


War
















Schools of thought







By era



Ancient
Western

Medieval
Renaissance
Early modern
Modern
Contemporary







Ancient




Chinese



Agriculturalism
Confucianism
Legalism
Logicians
Mohism
Chinese naturalism
Neotaoism
Taoism
Yangism
Zen





Greco-Roman



Aristotelianism
Atomism
Cynicism
Cyrenaics
Eleatics
Eretrian school
Epicureanism
Hermeneutics
Ionian

Ephesian
Milesian


Megarian school
Neoplatonism
Peripatetic
Platonism
Pluralism
Presocratic
Pyrrhonism
Pythagoreanism
Neopythagoreanism
Sophistic
Stoicism





Indian



Samkhya
Nyaya
Vaisheshika
Yoga
Mīmāṃsā
Ājīvika
Ajñana
Cārvāka
Jain

Anekantavada
Syādvāda


Buddhist

Śūnyatā
Madhyamaka
Yogacara
Sautrāntika
Svatantrika







Persian



Mazdakism
Zoroastrianism
Zurvanism








Medieval




European



Christian philosophy
Scholasticism
Thomism
Renaissance humanism





East Asian



Korean Confucianism
Edo Neo-Confucianism
Neo-Confucianism





Indian



Vedanta

Acintya bheda abheda
Advaita
Bhedabheda
Dvaita
Dvaitadvaita
Shuddhadvaita
Vishishtadvaita


Navya-Nyāya





Islamic



Averroism
Avicennism
Illuminationism
ʿIlm al-Kalām
Sufi





Jewish



Judeo-Islamic








Modern




People



Cartesianism
Kantianism
Neo-Kantianism
Hegelianism
Marxism
Spinozism





0



Anarchism
Classical Realism
Liberalism
Collectivism
Conservatism
Determinism
Dualism
Empiricism
Existentialism
Foundationalism
Historicism
Holism
Humanism
Idealism

Absolute
British
German
Objective
Subjective
Transcendental


Individualism
Kokugaku
Materialism
Modernism
Monism
Naturalism
Natural law
Nihilism
New Confucianism
Neo-Scholasticism
Pragmatism
Phenomenology
Positivism
Reductionism
Rationalism
Social contract
Socialism
Transcendentalism
Utilitarianism








Contemporary




Analytic



Applied ethics
Analytic feminism
Analytical Marxism
Communitarianism
Consequentialism
Critical rationalism
Experimental philosophy
Falsificationism
Foundationalism / Coherentism
Generative linguistics
Internalism and Externalism
Logical positivism
Legal positivism
Normative ethics
Meta-ethics
Moral realism
Neo-Aristotelian
Quinean naturalism
Ordinary language philosophy
Postanalytic philosophy
Quietism
Rawlsian
Reformed epistemology
Systemics
Scientism
Scientific realism
Scientific skepticism
Contemporary utilitarianism
Vienna Circle
Wittgensteinian





Continental



Critical theory
Deconstruction
Existentialism
Feminist
Frankfurt School
New Historicism
Hermeneutics
Neo-Marxism
Phenomenology
Postmodernism
Post-structuralism
Social constructionism
Structuralism
Western Marxism





Other



Kyoto School
Objectivism
Russian cosmism
more...



















Positions







Aesthetics



Formalism
Institutionalism
Aesthetic response





Ethics



Consequentialism
Deontology
Virtue





Free will



Compatibilism
Determinism
Libertarianism





Metaphysics



Atomism
Dualism
Monism
Naturalism





Epistemology



Constructivism
Empiricism
Idealism
Particularism
Fideism
Rationalism / Reasonism
Skepticism
Solipsism





Mind



Behaviorism
Emergentism
Eliminativism
Epiphenomenalism
Functionalism
Objectivism
Subjectivism





Normativity



Absolutism
Particularism
Relativism
Nihilism
Skepticism
Universalism





Ontology



Action
Event
Process





Reality



Anti-realism
Conceptualism
Idealism
Materialism
Naturalism
Nominalism
Physicalism
Realism



















Philosophy by region
Philosophy-related lists
Miscellaneous










By region



African
Ethiopian
Aztec
Native America
Eastern
Chinese
Egyptian
Czech
Indian
Indonesian
Iranian
Japanese
Korean
Vietnam
Pakistani
Western
American
Australian
British
Danish
French
German
Greek
Italian
Polish
Romanian
Russian
Slovene
Spanish
Turkish





Lists



Outline
Index
Years
Problems
Schools
Glossary
Philosophers
Movements
Publications





Miscellaneous



Women in philosophy
Sage (philosophy)














 Portal
 Category
 Book












v
t
e


Theology: Outline








Conceptions of God







Theism




Forms




Deism
Dystheism
Henotheism
Hermeticism
Kathenotheism
Nontheism
Monolatry
Monotheism
Mysticism
Panentheism
Pandeism
Pantheism
Polydeism
Polytheism
Spiritualism
Theopanism





Concepts




Deity
Divinity
Gender of God and gods

Male deity
Goddess


Numen








Singular god
theologies




By faith



Abrahamic religions

Judaism
Christianity
Islam


the Bahá'í Faith
Buddhism
Hinduism
Jainism
Sikhism
Zoroastrianism





Concepts



Absolute
Brahman
Emanationism
Logos
Supreme Being





God as



the Devil
Sustainer
Time








Trinitarianism



Athanasian Creed
Comma Johanneum
Consubstantiality
Homoousian
Homoiousian
Hypostasis
Perichoresis
Shield of the Trinity
Trinitarian formula
Trinity
Trinity of the Church Fathers
Trinitarian Universalism





Eschatology



Afterlife
Apocalypticism
Buddhist
Christian
Heaven
Hindu
Islamic
Jewish
Taoist
Zoroastrian





Feminist



Buddhism
Christianity
Hinduism
Islam
Judaism
Mormonism
Goddesses





Other concepts



The All
Aristotelian view
Attributes of God in Christianity / in Islam
Binitarianism
Demiurge
Divine simplicity
Divine presence
Egotheism
Exotheology
Holocaust
Godhead in Christianity

Latter Day Saints


Great Architect of the Universe
Great Spirit
Apophatic theology
Olelbis
Open theism
Personal god
Phenomenological definition
Philo's view
Process
Tian
Unmoved mover





Names of God in



Christianity
Hinduism
Islam
Jainism
Judaism
















By Faith







Christian



History
Outline
Biblical canon
Glossary
Christology
Cosmology
Ecclesiology
Ethics
Hamartiology
Messianism
Nestorianism
Philosophy
Practical
Sophiology
Soteriology





Hindu



Ayyavazhi theology
Krishnology





Islamic



Oneness of God
Prophets
Holy Scriptures
Angels
Predestination
Last Judgment





Jewish



Abrahamic prophecy
Aggadah
Denominations
Kabbalah
Philosophy


















v
t
e


Asia articles



History




Chronology



Indian Ocean trade
Silk Road
Imperialism
Decolonisation





By topic



Military

conflicts


Sovereignty








Geography











Cities

metropolitan areas
tallest buildings


Countries and territories

by population


Extreme points
Islands
Lakes
Mountains
Rivers





Regions



Asia-Pacific
Central Asia
East Asia
Eurasia
Inner Asia
North Asia
Northeast Asia
South Asia
Southeast Asia
Tropical Asia
Western Asia











Politics











Heads of government
Heads of state
Elections

political parties


Human rights
Law
Military





Intergovernmental



Asia Cooperation Dialogue (ACD)
Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN)
Bay of Bengal Initiative (BIMSTEC)
Economic Cooperation Organization (ECO)
Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (CCASG / GCC)
Mekong–Ganga Cooperation (MGC)
Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP)
South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC)
Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO)











Economy











Countries by GDP (PPP)
Countries by HDI
Currencies
Stock exchanges
Technology

renewable energy


Transport

airports
high-speed rail







Markets



Bond markets
Property markets











Society







Demographics
Education
Etiquette
Health
Languages
People

ethnic groups







Culture



Art
Cinema
Cuisine
Literature
Music
Philosophy
Religion
Sport








Future



Asian Century

Chinese Century
Indian Century
Pacific Century











Outline
Index



Book
Category
Portal
Maps









Authority control



NDL: 00573456










 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Eastern_philosophy&oldid=811830028"					
Categories: Eastern philosophyAsian cultureHistory of AsiaHidden categories: Wikipedia articles needing page number citations from July 2015Articles containing Sanskrit-language textArticles needing additional references from November 2017All articles needing additional referencesAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from May 2017Articles with unsourced statements from October 2007Use dmy dates from April 2017 
