Griffin Communications - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search







This article does not cite any sources. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (July 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)




Griffin Communications LLC


Logo used since 2009, a modified 3D gradient version of its previous logo




Type

Private
Limited Liability Company


Industry
Broadcast
Media
Digital
Television
Radio


Founded
1953; 64 years ago (1953)


Headquarters
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma



Key people

John Toole Griffin
James C. "Jimmy" Leake
David F. Griffin
Kirsten Griffin


Products
Broadcasting
Media
Digital


Owner
Griffin Family


Parent
Griffin Food Company


Subsidiaries
KWTV-DT
KOTV-DT
News 9 Now / News on 6 Now (formerly, News Now 53 (co-owned by Cox Communications Oklahoma))
KQCW-DT
KSBI-DT
9 Outdoor
6 Outdoor
Radio Oklahoma Network
Griffin Tower Company
Griffin New Media
Griffin Digital Solutions


Website
griffincommunications.net


Griffin Communications is a media company based in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. The company began as a subsidiary of successful Muskogee-based Griffin Foods, which features a popular line of pancake and waffle syrups and other foods.
It owns Oklahoma's two large CBS affiliates, KWTV-DT in Oklahoma City and KOTV-DT in Tulsa, and duopoly partners in each of those markets, MyNetworkTV outlet KSBI-TV in Oklahoma City and The CW outlet KQCW-DT in Tulsa.
History[edit]
Grocery magnate John Toole Griffin entered the communications world in the late 1930s, signing on KTUL radio (1430 AM, now KTBZ) in Tulsa and later purchasing KOMA radio in Oklahoma City (1520 AM, now KOKC).
His son John extended the family business, applying for a television station in Oklahoma City with his brother-in-law, James C. "Jimmy" Leake. On December 20, 1953, KWTV signed on channel 9 as a CBS affiliate, named for its tall transmitter tower (which did not actually go into use until 1954). Griffin also owned two other television stations in partnership with Leake. The first of these was KATV in Little Rock, which came to air the day before KWTV in 1953. On September 18, 1954, the company launched channel 8 out of Muskogee as KTVX. Not long after, the stations transitioned to Tulsa; when the move to Lookout Mountain was completed, the television station became KTUL. In 1956, the two sold their radio assets, and in 1963, the two bought out the other partners of KWTV. In 1968, Griffin sold his share in KTUL and KATV to Leake while gaining sole control of KWTV; Leake's stations were later sold to Allbritton Communications and are now part of Sinclair Broadcast Group.
Griffin expanded its television holdings again in 1986, buying KPOM-TV, the NBC affiliate in Fort Smith, Arkansas. To solve longstanding reception difficulties the station faced, Griffin brought satellite station KFAA-TV to air in Fayetteville in 1989. Under Griffin's ownership, the stations aired no local news from 1992 to 1999. They were sold to Nexstar Broadcasting Group in 2004.
In 2000, the company returned to Tulsa when it bought KOTV, the market's CBS affiliate, from Belo Corporation. Griffin has expanded and invested in its Tulsa station, buying KQCW (then known as KWBT) in 2005 and constructing a new facility for KOTV, which opened in 2013.
In 2005, Griffin acquired the Radio Oklahoma Network, a statewide radio network that distributes news, KOTV and KWTV-provided weather content, sports, and commodities reports to radio stations across the state. The network was moved into Griffin's Oklahoma City facilities in 2007 and 2008.
In 2007, Griffin New Media was established to manage the Griffin station websites.
Griffin also owns a pair of news rebroadcast channels, News 9 Now and News on 6 Now, which began as the cable channel News Now 53 in 1996.
References[edit]

External links[edit]

Official website







v
t
e


Griffin Communications



Broadcast television




Television stations



Oklahoma City
KWTV (CBS)
KSBI (MNTV)
Tulsa
KOTV (CBS)
KQCW (CW)





Digital multicast channels



News 9 Now / News on 6 Now








Radio



Radio Oklahoma Network





Internet



405Moms.com
918Moms.com
CoachesAid.com
IneedTHIS.com
OklahomaFarmReport.com
OKBlitz.com












v
t
e


Major corporations within the Oklahoma City metropolitan area



NYSE listed



Chesapeake Energy
Continental Resources
Devon Energy
OG+E Energy
Paycom
SandRidge Energy
Tronox





NASDAQ listed



BancFirst
Sonic Drive-In





Major private companies



Ackerman McQueen
American Fidelity Assurance
Braum's
Digital Designs
Globe Life and Accident Insurance Company
Griffin Communications
Hobby Lobby
Love's Travel Stops
MidFirst Bank
The Oklahoman
Taco Mayo
Tyler Media Group





Law firms



Crowe & Dunlevy










This United States media company article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.


v
t
e









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Griffin_Communications&oldid=810058036"					
Categories: Griffin CommunicationsCompanies based in Oklahoma CityTelevision broadcasting companies of the United StatesUnited States media company stubsHidden categories: Articles lacking sources from July 2017All articles lacking sourcesPages using deprecated image syntaxAll stub articles 
