P & P Cable Holdings - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search







This article does not cite any sources. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (January 2009) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)









This article includes a list of references, related reading or external links, but its sources remain unclear because it lacks inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (October 2013) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)



P&P Cable Holdings is a corporation in the United States that owns several low-power television stations. The company started in Michigan with one television station, W54DA (later WXON-LP, now defunct). Since then, the company has expanded to fifteen stations. Many of the call signs held by P&P, were previously held by other Michigan stations, and the company is well known for picking up no longer used calls and reusing them for their own LPTV properties. A few P&P stations were purchased by a company called NTN Saginaw, until that company went out of business.



Contents


1 History
2 Stations

2.1 Still on the air
2.2 Off the air
2.3 Stations formerly owned by P&P


3 External links



History[edit]
In the 1990s, P&P had around 20 construction permits, some of which were deleted by the FCC or bought by different companies. Some were built, however. The construction permit for W30BQ in Pinconning was built as W54DA in Flint, that would become P&P's first station. W54DA's callsign was later changed to WXON-LP. The WXON calls were previously used by WMYD, and P&P now uses former callsigns of Michigan stations.
Many P&P stations were purchased by different companies. A few were purchased by NTN Saginaw, and W52CU (now WHNE-LD) was purchased by Tait Broadcasting and moved to Detroit.
In 2012, some P&P stations were forced off the air due to the deletion of UHF 52-69. Now many P&P stations just operate part-time until it is known if the FCC will force them off the air, especially since they're low power stations and with the spectrum auction. If that happens, Traverse City will have no MyNetwork TV affiliate.
Stations[edit]
Still on the air[edit]


Callsign
City of license
Affiliations
Channel number
Notes
Effective radiated power


W09CK
Flint, Michigan
Independent (public domain movies)
Analog VHF 9
Formerly a repeater of WXON-LP, until that station went off the air. W09CK now is only on the air part-time.
85 watts


WUHO-LP
Kalamazoo, Michigan
Independent
Analog UHF 36

15 kilowatts


WBWM-LP
Mount Pleasant, Michigan
Analog UHF 32
P&P has plans to convert this station to digital.
87 watts


W15BP
Pinconning, Michigan
Analog UHF 15

250 watts


W44BO
Analog UHF 44



WKNX-LP
Bay City, Michigan
Analog UHF 22



WLLZ-LP
Traverse City, Michigan
Cozi TV and MyNetworkTV
Analog VHF 12
Only P&P station with a website and to be on a cable system.
893 watts


Off the air[edit]


Callsign
City of license
Final affiliations
Final channel number
Notes
Final effective radiated power


WXON-LP
Flint, Michigan
Independent
Analog UHF 54
Was P&P's first station, and had a repeater, W09CK, which is still on the air. Last aired in 2012
100 watts


W29CQ
Lansing, Michigan
Analog UHF 29

50 watts


W44BQ
Mount Pleasant, Michigan
Analog UHF 44

242 watts


W60CO
Analog UHF 60



W61DK
Analog UHF 61



WKJF-LP
Pinconning, Michigan
Analog UHF 58

250 watts


WTCF-LP
Analog UHF 69



Stations formerly owned by P&P[edit]
These are stations at one point owned by P&P, but are now owned by a different company


Callsign (under P&P ownership)
City of license (as a P&P station)
Channel number as a P&P station
Final affiliation as a P&P station
Current information of station


W52CU
Pinconning, Michigan
Analog UHF 52
Never signed on as a P&P station
Is now a LATV affiliate in Detroit on digital UHF 20 on PSIP 14. Now owned by Tait Broadcasting. Callsign is now WHNE-LD. Station has six subchannels now.


WUHQ-LP
Grand Rapids, Michigan
Analog UHF 29
MTV Tr3s
Now a Daystar affiliate with callsign WUHQ-LD


External links[edit]

Michiguide: More info on P&P Cable Holdings
WLLZ-LP Website





This United States media company article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.


v
t
e









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=P_%26_P_Cable_Holdings&oldid=725428840"					
Categories: Television broadcasting companies of the United StatesUnited States media company stubsHidden categories: Articles lacking sources from January 2009All articles lacking sourcesArticles lacking in-text citations from October 2013All articles lacking in-text citationsAll stub articles 
