Christopher Award - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search







This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (June 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)



The Christopher Award (established 1949) is presented to the producers, directors, and writers of books, motion pictures and television specials that "affirm the highest values of the human spirit".[1] It is given by The Christophers, a Christian organization founded in 1945 by the Maryknoll priest James Keller.
The 2016 Christopher Awards were announced on March 30, 2016, and were presented in a ceremony in New York City on May 19.[2]



Contents


1 Judging process
2 Categories
3 Selection of previous winners/honorees

3.1 Christopher Leadership Awards
3.2 Christopher Life Achievement Award
3.3 Christopher Spirit Award
3.4 James Keller Award
3.5 Books for Adults
3.6 Books for Young People
3.7 Feature films
3.8 Television & Cable


4 References
5 External links



Judging process[edit]
Publishers, TV networks, and film directors are asked to submit titles and work that they believe to be award-worthy. Industry professionals and Christopher staff members make the final selections based on:

Artistic and technical proficiency
Significant degree of public acceptance
Affirmation of the highest values of the human spirit

Categories[edit]

Christopher Leadership Awards
Christopher Life Achievement Award
Christopher Spirit Award
James Keller Award
Books for Adults
Books for Young People
Feature Films
Television & Cable

Selection of previous winners/honorees[edit]
Christopher Leadership Awards[edit]

2011 Scotty Smiley[3]
2008 Cardinal John Patrick Foley
2005 Sargent Shriver
2004 Father John T. Catoir
2002 Rudy Giuliani

Christopher Life Achievement Award[edit]

2016 Ernie Anastos[4]
2012 Mother Dolores Hart[5]
2008 David McCullough
2006 Dave Brubeck
2005 Robert Coles
2004 Art Linkletter
2003 Mary Higgins Clark

Christopher Spirit Award[edit]

2016 When Calls the Heart[4]

James Keller Award[edit]

2012 Marty Lyons[6]
2011 Shannon Hickey[7]
2005 Pat LaFontaine
2004 Caroll Spinney

Books for Adults[edit]
2016[2]

Five Years in Heaven: The Unlikely Friendship That Answered Life’s Greatest Questions by John Schlimm (Image Books/Crown Publishing)
The Gift of Caring: Saving Our Parents from the Perils of Modern Healthcare by Marcy Cottrell Houle and Elizabeth Eckstrom (Taylor Trade Publishing/Rowan & Littlefield)
One Righteous Man: Samuel Battle and the Shattering of the Color Line in New York by Arthur Browne (Beacon Press)
Tough As They Come by Travis Mills with Marcus Brotherton (Convergent Books/Crown Publishing)
Under the Same Sky: From Starvation in North Korea to Salvation in America by Joseph Kim with Stephan Talty (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt)
The Wind in the Reeds: A Storm, a Play, and the City That Would Not Be Broken by Wendell Pierce (Riverhead Books/Random House)

2015

The Invisible Front: Love and Loss in an Era of Endless War by Yochi Dreazen (Crown Publishers).

2014[8]

American Story: A Lifetime Search for Ordinary People Doing Extraordinary Things by Bob Dotson (Viking Press/Penguin Group)
Love and Salt: A Spiritual Friendship Shared in Letters by Amy Andrews and Jessica Mesman Griffith (Loyola Press)
The Miracle of Father Kapaun: Priest, Soldier, and Korean War Hero by Roy Wenzl and Travis Heying (Ignatius Press)
On These Courts: A Miracle Season That Changed a City, a Once-Future Star, and a Team Forever by Wayne B. Drash (Touchstone Books/Simon and Schuster)
Walk In Their Shoes: Can One Person Change the World? by Jim Ziolkowski with James S. Hirsch (Simon and Schuster)

2013

Carly’s Voice by Arthur Fleischmann and Carly Fleischmann
Fearless by Eric Blehm
A Good Man by Mark Shriver
My Sisters the Saints by Colleen Carroll Campbell
Road to Valor by Aili and Andres McConnon

2012

A Good and Perfect Gift by Julia Becker
An Invisible Thread by Laura Schroff and Alex Tresniowski
I Shall Not Hate by Izzeldin Abuelaish
Kisses from Katie by Katie Davis and Beth Clark
Little Princes by Conor Grennan

2011

Bonhoeffer: Pastor, Martyr, Prophet, Spy by Eric Metaxas
The Jesuit Guide to (Almost) Everything by James Martin
Thea’s Song: The Life of Thea Bowman by Charlene Smith and John Feister
Unbroken: A World War II Story of Survival, Resilience, and Redemption by Laura Hillenbrand
Washington: A Life by Ron Chernow

2010

A. Lincoln: A Biography by Ronald C. White, Jr.
Stones into Schools by Greg Mortenson
Strength in What Remains by Tracy Kidder
Wrestling with Moses: How Jane Jacobs Took on New York's Master Builder and Transformed the American City by Anthony Flint

2009

Alex & Me by Irene Pepperberg
American-Made—The Enduring Legacy of the WPA: When FDR Put the Nation to Work by Nick Taylor
Final Salute: A Story of Unfinished Lives by Jim Sheeler
Founding Faith: Providence, Politics, and the Birth of Religious Freedom in America by Steven Waldman
The Soloist: A Lost Dream, an Unlikely Friendship, and the Redemptive Power of Music by Steve Lopez
Until Our Last Breath: A Holocaust Story of Love and Partisan Resistance by Michael Bart and Laurel Corona

2008

Brother, I'm Dying by Edwidge Danticat
The Florist's Daughter by Patricia Hempl
The Invisible Wall: A Love Story That Broke Barriers by Harry Bernstein
The Lonely Patient: How We Experience Illness by Michael Stein, M.D.
A Long Way Gone: Memoirs of a Boy Soldier by Ishmael Beah
A Slave No More: Two Men Who Escaped to Freedom by David W. Blight

2007

Barefootin': Life Lessons from the Road to Freedom by Unita Blackwell with JoAnne Prichard Morris
Enrique's Journey by Sonia Nazario
The Language of God: A Scientist Presents Evidence for Belief by Francis Collins
Left to Tell: Discovering God Amidst the Rwandan Holocaust by Immaculée Ilibagiza with Steve Erwin
The Lemon Tree: An Arab, a Jew, and the Heart of the Middle East by Sandy Tolan
My Life with the Saints by James Martin

2006

The Death of Innocents: An Eyewitness Account of Wrongful Executions by Sister Helen Prejean
The Glass Castle by Jeannette Walls
One Soldier’s Story: A Memoir by Bob Dole
The Prison Angel: Mother Antonia’s Journey from Beverly Hills to a Life of Service in a Mexican Jail by Mary Jordan & Kevin Sullivan
They Poured Fire on Us From the Sky by Benson Deng, Alephonsion Deng & Benjamin Ajak, with Judy A. Bernstein

2005

Anatomy of Hope by Jerome Groopman, M.D.
Blood Done Sign My Name by Timothy Tyson
The Freedom Line by Peter Eisner
I Am a Pencil: A Teacher, His Kids, and Their World of Stories by Sam Swope
Love in the Driest Season: A Family Memoir by Neely Tucker
Mao’s Last Dancer: A Memoir by Li Cunxin

2004

A Human Being Died That Night by Pumla Gobodo-Madikizela
If I Get to Five by Fred Epstein, M.D., & Joshua Horwitz
The Life You Save May Be Your Own: An American Pilgrimage by Paul Elie
My Heart Will Cross This Ocean: My Story, My Son, Amadou by Kadiatou Diallo & Craig Wolff
My Path Leads to Tibet by Sabriye Tenberken
Sisters: Catholic Nuns and the Making of America by John J. Fialka
Triangle: The Fire That Changed America by David Von Drehle

2003

Choosing Naia: A Family’s Journey by Mitchell Zuckoff
The Day the World Came to Town: 9/11 in Gander, Newfoundland by Jim DeFede
Fatal Passage: The Story of John Rae, The Arctic Hero Time Forgot by Ken McGoogan
Five Past Midnight in Bhopal by Dominique Lapierre & Javier Moro
Jim's Last Summer: Lessons on Living from a Dying Priest by Teresa Rhodes McGee
Standing on Holy Ground: A Triumph Over Hate Crime in the Deep South by Sandra E. Johnson

2002

Aging with Grace by David Snowdon, Ph.D.
Choosing Mercy by Antoinette Bosco
Freedom’s Daughters by Lynne Olson
An Hour Before Daylight by Jimmy Carter
John Adams by David McCullough
Nickel and Dimed by Barbara Ehrenreich

2001[9]

Aging with Grace, by David Snowdon, Ph.D. (Bantam Books)
Choosing Mercy, by Antoinette Bosco (Orbis Books)
Freedom’s Daughters, by Lynne Olson (Scribner)
An Hour Before Daylight, by Jimmy Carter (Simon & Schuster)
John Adams, by David McCullough (Simon & Schuster)
Nickel and Dimed, by Barbara Ehrenreich (Metropolitan Books/Henry Holt and Company, LLC)

Books for Young People[edit]
2016 [2]

Preschool and up: One Good Deed by Terri Fields, illustrated by Deborah Melmon (Kar-Ben Publishing)
Kindergarten and up: An Invisible Thread Christmas Story by Laura Schroff and Alex Tresniowski, illustrated by Barry Root (Little Simon/Simon & Schuster)
Ages 6 and up: Poet: The Remarkable Story of George Moses Horton by Don Tate (Peachtree Publishers)
Ages 8 and up: Katie’s Cabbage by Katie Stagliano with Michelle H. Martin, illustrated by Karen Heid (Young Palmetto Books/University of South Carolina Press)
Ages 10 and up: Firefly Hollow by Alison McGhee, illustrated by Christopher Denise (Atheneum Books for Young Readers/Simon & Schuster)
Young Adult: Paper Hearts by Meg Wiviott (Margaret K. McElderry Books/Simon & Schuster)

2014[8]

Preschool and up: Maya Was Grumpy written and illustrated by Courtney Pippin-Mathur (Flashlight Press)
Kindergarten and up: Year of the Jungle: Memories from the Home Front by Suzanne Collins, illustrated by James Proimos (Scholastic Press)
Ages 6 and up: The Matchbox Diary by Paul Fleischman, illustrated by Bagram Ibatoulline (Candlewick Press)
Ages 8 and up: Flora & Ulysses by Kate DiCamillo, illustrated by K.G. Campbell (Candlewick Press)
Ages 10 and up: The Boy On the Wooden Box by Leon Leyson with Marilyn J. Harran and Elisabeth B. Leyson (Atheneum Books for Young Readers/Simon and Schuster Children’s Publishing)

2013

Forever You: A Book About Your Soul and Body by Nicole Lataif with illustrations by Mary Rojas
The Fantastic Flying Books of Mr. Morris Lessmore by William Joyce with illustrations by Joe Bluhm
The House on Dirty-Third Street by Jo S. Kittinger with illustrations by Thomas Gonzalez
The One and Only Ivan by Katherine Applegate with illustrations by Patricia Castelao
Wonder by R.J. Palacio
Outcasts United by Warren St. John

2012

Shine: Choices to Make God Smile by Genny Monchamp with illustrations by Karol Kaminski
Waiting for the Biblioburro by Monica Brown with illustrations by John Parra
You Can Be a Friend by Tony Dungy and Lauren Dungy with illustrations by Ron Mazellan
Hooper Finds a Family by Jane Paley
Words in the Dust by Trent Reedy
Close to Famous by Joan Bauer

2011

Knuffle Bunny Free: An Unexpected Diversion by Mo Willems
Would You Still Love Me If… by Wendy LaGuardia with illustrations by Patricia Keeler
Brother Jerome and the Angels in the Bakery by Father Dominic Garramone
Lafayette and the American Revolution by Russell Freedman

2010

Preschool: Ten Days and Nine Nights: An Adoption Story by Yumi Heo
Ages 6–8: Nubs: The True Story of a Mutt, a Marine & a Miracle by Major Brian Dennis, Kirby Larson, & Mary Nethery
Ages 8–10: Most Loved in All the World by Tonya Cherie Hegamin with illustrations by Cozbi A. Cabrera
Ages 10–12: Extra Credit by Andrew Clements with illustrations by Mark Elliott
Young Adult: A Pearl in the Storm: How I Found My Heart in the Middle of the Ocean by Tori Murden

2009

Preschool: Close to You: How Animals Bond by Kimiko Kajikawa
Ages 6–8: That Book Woman by Heather Henson with illustrations by David Small
Ages 8-10: Clementine’s Letter by Sara Pennypacker with illustrations by Marla Frazee
Ages 10-12: Shooting the Moon by Frances O’Roark Dowell
Young Adult: Sunrise Over Fallujah by Walter Dean Myers

2008

Preschool: Taking a Bath with the Dog and Other Things That Make Me Happy by Scott Menchin
Ages 6–8: How Many Seeds in a Pumpkin? by Margaret McNamara with illustrations by G. Brian Karas
Ages 8-10: Owen & Mzee: The Language of Friendship by Isabella Hatkoff, Craig Hatkoff, and Dr. Paula Kahumbu with photographs by Peter Greste
Ages 10-12: The Wild Girls by Pat Murphy
Young Adult: Diamonds in the Shadow by Caroline B. Cooney

2007

Preschool: Hero Cat by Eileen Spinelli with illustrations by Jo Ellen McAllister Stammen
Ages 6–8: How We Are Smart by W. Nikola-Lisa with illustrations by Sean Qualls
Ages 8-10: The Miraculous Journey of Edward Tulane by Kate DiCamillo with illustrations by Bagram Ibatoulline
Ages 10-12: Listen! by Stephanie S. Tolan
Young Adult: Bread and Roses, Too by Katherine Paterson

2006

Preschool: Am I a Color Too? by Heidi Cole & Nancy Vogl with illustrations by Gerald Purnell (Preschool)
Ages 6–8: I Could Do That! Esther Morris Gets Women the Vote by Linda Arms White with illustrations by Nancy Carpenter (Ages 6–8)
Ages 8-10: Game Day by Tiki Barber and Ronde Barber with Robert Burleigh, illustrations by Barry Root
Ages 10-12: Friendship According to Humphrey by Betty G. Birney
Young Adult: Hitch by Jeanette Ingold

2005

Preschool: Never, Ever Shout in a Zoo by Karma Wilson with illustrations by Doug Cushman
Ages 6–8: The Hungry Coat: A Tale from Turkey written and illustrated by Demi
Ages 8-10: Shredderman: Secret Identity by Wendelin Van Draanen with illustrations by Brian Biggs
Ages 10-12: The Teacher’s Funeral: A Comedy in Three Parts by Richard Peck
Young Adult: Thura’s Diary: My Life in Wartime Iraq by Thura Al Windawi

2004

Preschool: Little Bear’s Little Boat by Eve Bunting with illustrations by Nancy Carpenter
Ages 6–8: The Dot written and illustrated by Peter H. Reynolds
Ages 8-10: Harvesting Hope: The Story of Cesar Chavez by Kathleen Krull with illustrations by Yuyi Morales
Ages 10-12: Iqbal by Francesco D’Adamo
Young Adult: The Silent Boy by Lois Lowry

2003

People Mole and the Baby Bird by Marjorie Newman with illustrations by Patrick Benson
Ages 6–8: Dear Mrs. Larue: Letters from Obedience School written and illustrated by Mark Teague
Ages 8-10: The Ugly Princess and the Wise Fool by Margaret Gray with illustrations by Randy Cecil
Ages 10-12: Pictures of Hollis Woods by Patricia Reilly Giff
Young Adult: Left for Dead by Pete Nelson

2002

Kiss Good Night by Amy Hest with illustrations by Anita Jeram
Ages 6–8: Beatrice's Goat by Page McBrier with illustrations by Lori Lohstoeter
Ages 8-10: Love That Dog by Sharon Creech
Ages 10-12: Uncle Daddy by Ralph Fletcher
Young Adult: Soldier X by Don L. Wulffson and Witness by Karen Hesse

2001[9]

Ages 6-8: How Do Dinosaurs Say Good Night? by Jane Yolen, illustrated by Mark Teague (The Blue Sky Press/Scholastic Inc.)
Ages 9-10: The Mousery by Charlotte Pomerantz, illustrated by Kurt Cyrus (Gulliver Books/Harcourt, Inc.)
Ages 11-12: The Yellow Star by Carmen Agra Deedy, illustrated by Henri Sørensen (Peachtree Publishers, Ltd.)
Ages 11-12: Hope Was Here by Joan Bauer (G. P. Putnam’s Sons)
Young Adult: The Wanderer by Sharon Creech (Joanna Cotler Books/HarperCollins Publishers)

Feature films[edit]




2016[2]

Creed
The Drop Box
The Martian
Room

2014[8]

42
Frozen
Gimme Shelter
Gravity

2013

Lincoln
Les Misérables
Undefeated

2012

Buck
The Help
The Muppets
Of Gods and Men
War Horse
The Way

2011

The Human Experience
The King's Speech
Toy Story 3
Secretariat

2010

The Blind Side
Invictus
Up

2009

Changeling
The Secret Life of Bees
Slumdog Millionaire
The Visitor
WALL-E
Young@Heart

2008

Amazing Grace
The Diving Bell and the Butterfly
The Great Debaters
Juno
The Kite Runner
Ratatouille



2007

Akeelah and the Bee
Charlotte's Web
Miss Potter
The Nativity Story
Sophie Scholl – The Final Days
Water
World Trade Center

2006

Good Night, and Good Luck
Mad Hot Ballroom
Millions
An Unfinished Life
The Wild Parrots of Telegraph Hill

2005

Finding Neverland
Hotel Rwanda
The Incredibles
Miracle

2004

In America
Seabiscuit
Secret Lives: Hidden Children and Their Rescuers During WWII
The Station Agent
Whale Rider

2003 About a Boy

Antwone Fisher
Evelyn
Rabbit-Proof Fence
Signs
Spirited Away

2002

A Beautiful Mind
Iris
Shrek
The Widow of Saint-Pierre

2001[9]

Billy Elliot
Cast Away
Finding Forrester
My Dog Skip
Remember the Titans

1953

Peter Pan





Television & Cable[edit]
2016[2]

ABC News 20/20: Escaping ISIS (ABC News)
America ReFramed: If You Build It (World Channel/PBS)
Dolly Parton's Coat of Many Colors (NBC)
The Jim Gaffigan Show: My Friend the Priest (TV Land)
Tashi and the Monk (HBO)

References[edit]


^ The Christopher Awards, The Christophers, Inc. Retrieved May 26, 2011.
^ a b c d e The 67th annual Christopher Awards, The Christophers, Inc. Retrieved June 27, 2016.
^ The Christopher's page on Scotty Smiley
^ a b The 67th annual Christopher Awards Special Awards, The Christophers, Inc. Retrieved June 27, 2016.
^ The Christopher's page on Dolores Hart
^ The Christopher's page on Marty Lyons
^ The Christopher's page on Shannon Hickey
^ a b c "Heroism, Hope and Selflessness Highlighted in 65th Annual Christopher Award Winners". Release April 2, 2014. The Christophers. Retrieved 2014-07-25.
^ a b c "The 52nd Annual Christopher Award Winners". The Christophers (christophers.org). Retrieved 2014-07-25.


External links[edit]

Official website





 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Christopher_Award&oldid=793298822"					
Categories: American film awardsAmerican television awardsAmerican literary awardsAwards established in 1949Hidden categories: Articles needing additional references from June 2016All articles needing additional references 
