Alaska Rural Communications Service - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search







This article does not cite any sources. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (August 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)




Alaska Rural Communications Service

Statewide Alaska,
outside Anchorage, Fairbanks and Juneau
United States


Branding
ARCS


Channels
Analog: various, see below


Affiliations
ABC (via KYUR)
CBS (via KTVA)
Fox (via KTBY)
MyNetworkTV (via KYES-TV)
NBC (via KTUU)
PBS


Owner
Alaska Public Broadcasting
(transmitters owned by the State of Alaska)


Website
www.arcstv.org


The Alaska Rural Communications Service (ARCS) is a statewide network of low-powered television stations, serving 235 communities throughout the Alaskan Bush areas. The network is based in Anchorage, Alaska and is operated by Alaska Public Broadcasting, a joint venture of Alaska Public Media and Alaska's public broadcasters. Programming is beamed via satellite to the rural transmitters owned by the Alaska state government.
Programming on ARCS is a selection of programming from five commercial broadcast networks (NBC, CBS, ABC, Fox, MyNetworkTV) and syndication, via the Anchorage stations; plus PBS programming from KAKM and other PBS members in the state; occasionally, ARCS generates some of its own programming (including local sports coverage). Anchorage stations provide their programming to ARCS free of charge with the condition that advertising is allowed to remain. There is currently no CW programming available on ARCS.
Even though much of ARCS's programming contains commercials, the operation of ARCS is partially funded by donations from its viewers, just like member stations of PBS, as well as those of the Christian-based Trinity Broadcasting Network.
List of stations[edit]
ARCS is seen on the following low-powered television stations:
This list is incomplete; you can help by expanding it.

K13SH Adak
K12NS Akiak
K04LK Akutan
K04ND Alakanuk
K02KB Allakaket
K11QI Ambler
K09RS Anaktuvuk Pass
K07SS Angoon
K11QN Aniak
K04LI Arctic Village
K04LJ Atka
K21AO Bethel
K06LG Chuathbaluk
K06LP Circle Hot Springs
K09OW Nome
K13UG Nome
K13RR Tok

Inactive stations[edit]

K04KS Barrow
K11NN Barrow

External links[edit]

Official website







v
t
e


Broadcast television in The Alaskan Bush
Stations in areas that are outside of the three major centers (Anchorage, Juneau, Fairbanks) in Alaska



Local stations



ARCS (ABC/CBS/Fox/MNTV/NBC/PBS, regionwide)
K05KF 5 (3ABN, Dillingham)
KUCB-LP 8 (community bulletin board, Unalaska)
KMXT-LP 9 (PBS/KAKM-TV, Kodiak)
KUBD-LP 11 (CBS/ION, Kodiak)
KYUK-LD (15.1 PBS/KAKM-TV, 15.2 ARCS, 15.3 360 North, 15.4 KYUK-AM, Bethel)





Defunct stations



KYUK 4 (PBS, Bethel)









Alaska broadcast television areas by city
Alaskan Bush
Anchorage
Fairbanks
Juneau










 
This article about a television station in Alaska is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.


v
t
e









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Alaska_Rural_Communications_Service&oldid=804119136"					
Categories: American television networksABC network affiliatesCBS network affiliatesFox network affiliatesMyNetworkTV affiliatesNBC network affiliatesPBS member stationsPublic television in the United StatesTelevision stations in AlaskaAlaska building and structure stubsWestern United States television station stubsHidden categories: Articles lacking sources from August 2017All articles lacking sourcesIncomplete lists from August 2008Official website different in Wikidata and WikipediaAll stub articles 
