America's Auction Network - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



America's Auction Network





Owned by
REN Media USA


Picture format
480i (SDTV)


Country
United States


Language
English


Broadcast area
World Wide


Headquarters
Clearwater, Florida


Website
www.aanlive.com



Availability



Satellite


DirecTV
Channel 324


Dish Network
Channel 219


America's Auction Network (or AANLive) was an American satellite television network specializing in over-the-air auctions[1]
AANlive is an American licensed and bonded auction network specializing in live television auctions broadcast via cable television, satellite television and online. Fine jewelry, gemstones, coins and currency, real estate, handbags and art are showcased 24-hours a day, 365-days a year in an auction atmosphere. AANlive has taken the auction experience and combined it with the convenience of today’s technology to create the most effortless and enjoyable experience possible. Knowledgeable experts comprise AANlive’s team of hosts, each offering years of expertise and acumen while providing humor, entertainment and fun.
AANlive, previously known as America’s Auction Network, was founded in April 2002 by Jeremiah Hartman. Hartman, previously an owner of jewelry stores and a host/vendor for Jewelry Television, saw a market for auctioning collectibles, and, after closing his last jewelry store, began America’s Auction Network. Initially, the network sold just jewelry, but quickly expanded to antiques, rugs, artwork, Native American Indian collectibles and jewelry, militaria and more. Real estate was added to its repertoire in 2007.
On March 27, 2017, the assets of America’s Auction Network were purchased by REN Media Group USA, Inc. AANlive headquarters moved to Clearwater, FL where it was ran into the ground by the new owners until closing on November 3, 2017.
On November 3, 2017, AAN announced on their Twitter account they have ceased operation and have permanently gone off the air.
References[edit]



^ America's Auction Network Accessed 12 Mar 2011.







 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=America%27s_Auction_Network&oldid=812171166"					
Categories: Shopping networksAmerican television networksAmerican shopping networks 
