Batman (TV series) - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

This article is about the 1960s series. For the animated 2000s television program, see The Batman (TV series).


Batman



The series title card.



Genre



Action
Adventure
Comedy
Superhero fiction





Created by
William Dozier


Based on
Batman
by Bill Finger (uncredited)
and Bob Kane


Developed by
Lorenzo Semple, Jr.


Starring



Adam West
Burt Ward
Yvonne Craig
Alan Napier
Neil Hamilton
Stafford Repp
Madge Blake
Cesar Romero
Burgess Meredith
Frank Gorshin
Julie Newmar
Victor Buono
Eartha Kitt





Narrated by
William Dozier


Opening theme
"Batman Theme" by
Neal Hefti


Ending theme
"Batman Theme" by
Neal Hefti


Composer(s)



Nelson Riddle
Billy May
(incidental music)





Country of origin
United States


Original language(s)
English


No. of seasons
3


No. of episodes
120 (list of episodes)


Production


Executive producer(s)
William Dozier


Producer(s)
Howie Horwitz


Running time
25 minutes


Production company(s)



Greenway Productions
20th Century Fox Television





Distributor



20th Television
Warner Bros. Television Distribution





Release


Original network
ABC


Audio format
Monaural


Original release
January 12, 1966 (1966-01-12) – March 14, 1968 (1968-03-14)


Chronology


Related shows



Batman (1966 film) (spin-off)
The Green Hornet





Batman is a 1960s American live action television series, based on the DC comic book character of the same name. It stars Adam West as Batman and Burt Ward as Robin – two crime-fighting heroes who defend Gotham City from a variety of arch villains.[1][2] It is known for its camp style, upbeat theme music, and its intentionally humorous, simplistic morality (aimed at its largely teenage audience). This included championing the importance of using seat belts, doing homework, eating vegetables, and drinking milk.[3] It was described by executive producer William Dozier as the only situation comedy on the air without a laugh track. 120 episodes aired on the ABC network for three seasons from January 12, 1966, to March 14, 1968, twice weekly for the first two and weekly for the third. In 2016, television critics Alan Sepinwall and Matt Zoller Seitz ranked Batman as the 82nd greatest American television show of all time.



Contents


1 Format

1.1 Typical episode format and elements

1.1.1 Teaser and exposition


1.2 Investigation
1.3 After the cliffhanger
1.4 Other recurring elements


2 Cast

2.1 Regular cast
2.2 Recurring villains


3 Production

3.1 Origin
3.2 Season 1
3.3 Season 2
3.4 Season 3
3.5 Cancellation
3.6 Tie-in music


4 Episodes

4.1 Adaptations


5 Crossover with The Green Hornet TV series

5.1 The Green Hornet and Kato on Batman
5.2 Batman and Robin on The Green Hornet


6 Reception
7 Public service announcements

7.1 U.S. Savings Bonds
7.2 U.S. Department of Labor


8 Reunions
9 Legacy
10 Batmobile
11 References in popular culture

11.1 References In animation

11.1.1 Referenced in Batman: The Brave and the Bold
11.1.2 Referenced in Young Justice
11.1.3 Referenced in Robot Chicken


11.2 References in live action

11.2.1 Referenced in Batman Forever
11.2.2 Referenced in Birds of Prey
11.2.3 Referenced in Animal House


11.3 References in video games

11.3.1 Referenced in Batman: Arkham
11.3.2 Referenced in Lego Batman 3: Beyond Gotham




12 Spin-offs & Sequels

12.1 Batman (1966 film)
12.2 Batman: Return of the Caped Crusaders
12.3 Batman vs. Two-Face
12.4 The Batman '66 comic

12.4.1 Other comics




13 Pinball machine
14 DVD, digital media and Blu-ray release
15 Collectibles
16 Notes
17 Broadcast history

17.1 International broadcast


18 References
19 External links



Format[edit]







This section has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages)







This section possibly contains original research. Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. (October 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)









This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (July 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)





(Learn how and when to remove this template message)



Ostensibly a crime series, the style of the show was in fact campy and tongue-in-cheek. It was a true situation comedy, in that situations were exaggerated and were generally played for laughs. This increased as the seasons progressed, with the addition of ever greater absurdity. The characters, however, always took the absurd situations extremely seriously – which added to the comedy.
The series focused on the adventures of Batman and Robin. Although the lives of their alter-egos, millionaire Bruce Wayne and his ward Dick Grayson (Richard John Grayson) were frequently shown, it was usually only briefly, in the context of their being called away on superhero business, or in circumstances where they needed to employ their secret identities to assist in their crime-fighting. The "Dynamic Duo" typically come to the aid of the Gotham City Police upon the latter being stumped by a supervillain. Throughout each episode, Batman and Robin have to follow a series of (wildly improbable) clues to discover the supervillain's plan, then figure out how to thwart that plan and capture the criminal.
For the first two seasons, Batman aired twice a week on consecutive nights. Every story is a two-parter, except for two three-parters featuring villainous team ups (The Joker and The Penguin, The Penguin and Marsha, Queen of Diamonds) in the second season. The titles of each multi-part story usually rhymed. For the third season, which aired one episode a week, most episodes were self-contained stories. However, each episode would end with a teaser featuring the next episode's guest villain. The cliffhangers between multiple-parters typically consisted of the supervillain holding someone captive, usually the Dynamic Duo, with the captives being subject to some elaborate, gruesome – if unlikely – death. This would inevitably be resolved early in the follow-up episode.
Typical episode format and elements[edit]
Each story relied on using the same formula, so that the audience quickly came to expect a series of familiar set pieces: a phone call from the police asking for Batman's help, a dash to the Batcave, a race in the Batmobile to police headquarters, a conference in the Commissioner's office, investigating the scene of the crime, examining clues in the crime-lab at the Batcave, rushing to the villain's secret hideout, falling into the pre-arranged trap. By relying heavily on a formula, it became easy to spoof various elements of that formula.
Teaser and exposition[edit]
The typical story begins with a villain's caper (such as stealing a fabulous treasure, kidnapping a prominent person, or attempting to take over Gotham City). In his office, Commissioner Gordon, along with Chief O'Hara, learn of the crime and the culprit. Helpless to stop the villain, they contact Batman via the Batphone – a bright red telephone that provides a direct phone link to Batman (be it at Wayne Manor, the Batcave or the Batmobile). At "stately Wayne Manor", Alfred (Wayne's butler) answers the Batphone and informs Bruce Wayne of the call. Frequently, Wayne and his ward, Dick Grayson, are found talking with Dick's aunt, Harriet Cooper, who is unaware of Bruce and Dick's secret identities. Alfred discreetly interrupts and they excuse themselves to go to the Batphone in Wayne's study. Upon learning the details from Gordon, Wayne turns a switch concealed within a bust of Shakespeare that stands on his desk to reveal two fireman's poles hidden behind a sliding bookcase. "To the Batpoles!" Wayne exclaims, and he and Grayson slide down the poles that lead to the Batcave.
The title sequence features animated versions of Batman and Robin, drawn in the then-current style of the comic books, running towards camera and then fighting an assortment of villains, including several "marquee" villains such as the Joker and the Penguin.




Series stars Burt Ward (left) and Adam West (right), as Dick Grayson/Robin and Bruce Wayne/Batman, respectively.


Similar in style and content to the 1940s serials, Batman and Robin would arrive at the bottom of the Batpoles in the Batcave in full costume (reference is made later in the series to some sort of costuming device that functions on the way down the poles). They then jump into the Batmobile. Robin checks the gauges and reports, "Atomic batteries to power...turbines to speed." Batman responds, "Roger, ready to move out." With that, the two would drive out of the cave at high speed. As the Batmobile approached the mouth of the cave (actually a tunnel entrance in Los Angeles's Bronson Canyon), a camouflaged door would swing open and a hinged road barrier outside the Batcave would drop down to allow the car to exit onto the road. The duo then speeds to police headquarters to meet with Gordon and be briefed on the criminal they must thwart. Most of the footage following the opening title sequence from Batman and Robin sliding down the Batpoles through their arrival at police headquarters was reused in each episode. After the National Safety Council complained that Batman and Robin should set a good example, the repeated sequence was changed to show them fastening seat belts before starting out.[4][5]
Investigation[edit]
The initial discussion of the crime usually leads to Batman and Robin conducting their investigation alone, although the police are often used for assistance and to implement plans or traps that Batman devises to catch the villain. Typically Batman and Robin must use deduction from the clues left by the villain to determine elements such as the villain's identity, plan, target, and/or location. This usually results in a meeting with the villain, a fistfight with the villain's henchmen, and the villain's escape, leaving a further series of unlikely clues for the duo to investigate. Later, they would face the villain's henchmen again, be captured and one or both heroes placed in a deathtrap leading to a cliffhanger ending, which was usually resolved in the first few minutes of the next episode.
After the cliffhanger[edit]
The latter part(s) of multi-episode stories begins with a brief recap of the first part(s). After the opening credits and the theme music, the cliffhanger is resolved.
The same general plot pattern of investigation and confrontation repeats in the following episode until the villain is defeated in a major brawl.
Other recurring elements[edit]
The series used a narrator (executive producer William Dozier, uncredited) who parodied both the breathless narration style of the 1940s serials and Walter Winchell's bombastic narration of The Untouchables. He would end many of the cliffhanger episodes by intoning, "Tune in tomorrow – same Bat-time, same Bat-channel!" In the episodes following cliffhangers, recaps of the previous episode consisted of a series of short phrases from Dozier accompanying short, silent clips of the prior episode, which usually ended in a freeze-frame. In the third season, when single-episode stories were introduced, the narrator would end the show by encouraging viewers to tune in the following week.
During the climactic fistfights in each episode, the punches and other impacts were punctuated by onomatopoeia (sound effects) superimposed in bright colors over the action on the screen, as in comic-book fight scenes ("POW!", "BAM!", "ZONK!", etc.). As a money saving device, after the first season, instead of being superimposed over the fight scene, the sound effects were merely printed on cards and inserted into the action.
Despite the regular fighting on the show, Batman and Robin typically use non-lethal force; only three criminal characters die during the series: the Riddler's moll Molly (played by Jill St. John in the pilot episode), who accidentally falls into the Batcave's atomic reactor, and two out-of-town gunmen who shoot at Batman and Robin, but kill each other instead, toward the end of "Zelda The Great/A Death Worse Than Fate". In the film, six criminals die in total: Five henchmen are dehydrated by the Penguin in order to infiltrate the Batcave, but this plan fails when the henchmen unexpectedly disappear into antimatter once struck. A sixth henchman is presumably killed when he is caught in a trap meant for Batman and sprung into an exploding octopus. Twice, the Catwoman (Julie Newmar) appears to fall to her death (into a bottomless pit and from a high building into a river), but returned in later episodes. In "Instant Freeze", Mr. Freeze freezes a butler solid and knocks him over, and sound-effects suggest that he is shattered into pieces. A later reference suggests the butler survived. In "Green Ice", Mr. Freeze freezes a policeman solid; it is left unclear whether he survived. In "The Penguin's Nest", a policeman suffers an electric shock at the hands of the Penguin's accomplices, but he is presumed to survive, as he appears in some later episodes.
A catch-phrase popularized by the series was Robin's saying "Holy [subject], Batman!" whenever he encountered something startling. This phrase was parodied in the 1995 film Batman Forever.
In many episodes, Batman and Robin must get to a high point of a building or other structure. They do this via the Batrope which is thrown and anchored above the high point, and which Batman and Robin climb by walking up the side of the structure with the aid of the rope. The climbing sequences were filmed by rotating the camera 90 degrees and building a set for the "side" of the structure along the studio floor. The heroes' capes were pulled back (to replicate the pull of gravity) with invisible lines. In many episodes, celebrities made cameo appearances by popping their heads out of windows along these climbs to speak to the heroes.
In one episode, the Catwoman's hideout is a hair salon owned by a "Mr. Oceanbring." The real-life inspiration for the character, hair stylist (and future Manson family victim) Jay Sebring, appears uncredited during the fight scene and has a couple of spoken lines.
The villains commonly have henchmen whose names are somehow associated with the villain's identity; for example, Catwoman's henchmen have cat-related names like Felix and Leo. Characters commonly use alliterations. Examples include Batman referring to the Joker as a "hateful harlequin" and the Penguin calling Catwoman a "feline floozy".
Only two of the show's guest villains ever discovered Batman's true identity: Egghead by deductive reasoning, and King Tut on two occasions – the first time with a bug placed on the Batmobile and the second time by accidentally mining into the Batcave. Egghead was tricked into disbelieving his discovery, though, as was Tut in the episode when he bugged the Batmobile. In the episode when Tut tunneled into the Batcave, he was hit on the head by a rock, which made him forget his discovery and jarred him back into his identity as a mild-mannered professor of Egyptology at Yale University. While under the spell of the Siren (Joan Collins), Commissioner Gordon found the Batcave beneath Wayne Manor and deduced Batman's true identity, but Alfred gassed him to prevent his informing her, the memory of the discovery gone after leaving the Siren's spell.
The show's campiness was played up in elements, including the design of the villains, dialogue and in signs appearing on various props. Batman would frequently reveal one of his many crime-fighting gadgets, which were usually given a ridiculous-sounding name that somehow incorporated the word "bat" – often simply by adding the word "bat" to an otherwise normal descriptor, such as Shark Repellant Bat-Spray, Bat-Computer, Extra-Strong Bat-Knockout Gas, etc. Most of Batman's items in the Batcave, bat-vehicles and on the utility belt were given superfluous and simplistic block-letter labels, even though Batman, Robin and Alfred, the only people who used the equipment, clearly knew what all of it was.
Cast[edit]
See also: List of Batman television series characters
Regular cast[edit]

Adam West as Bruce Wayne / Batman: A millionaire whose parents were murdered by criminals, he now secretly uses his vast fortune to fight crime as Batman. Producer William Dozier cast Adam West in the role after seeing him perform as the James Bond-like spy Captain Q in a Nestlé Quik television ad. Lyle Waggoner had screen-tested for the role, though West ultimately won out because, it was said, he was the only person who could deliver the hilarious lines with a straight face. West later voiced an animated version of the title character on The New Adventures of Batman and well as Super Friends: The Legendary Super Powers Show and The Super Powers Team: Galactic Guardians.
Burt Ward as Dick Grayson / Robin: Batman's faithful (if overly eager) partner and "Boy Wonder", a high school student noted for his recurring interjections in the form of "Holy ________, Batman!" (The series avoided referencing Robin's origins as Bruce Wayne's fellow "crime orphan", as whose legal guardian the courts appoint Bruce.) Ward voiced an animated version of this character on The New Adventures of Batman.
Alan Napier as Alfred Pennyworth: Batman's loyal butler and Batgirl's discreet confidant. He is the only person who knows the true identities of Bruce Wayne, Dick Grayson and Barbara Gordon.
Neil Hamilton as Commissioner James Gordon: The Commissioner of the Gotham City Police Department and one of Batman's two major police contacts. He summons the Dynamic Duo via the Batphone or the Bat Signal.
Stafford Repp as Chief Miles O'Hara: Gotham City's Chief of Police, and Batman's other major police contact. The character was created by Semple for the series, as someone for Gordon to talk to, and later briefly added to the comics.
Madge Blake as Aunt Harriet Cooper: Dick Grayson's maternal aunt. She first appeared in the comics, two years before the series premiered, to give Bruce and Dick a reason to be secretive about their dual identities.
Yvonne Craig as Barbara Gordon / Batgirl: Commissioner Gordon's daughter, Gotham City librarian and crime fighting partner for Batman and Robin for the third season. Occasionally this threesome was nicknamed the "Terrific Trio".
William Dozier – Executive producer, creator, and narrator (uncredited).

According to Adam West's memoir, Back to the Batcave, his first exposure to the series concept was through reading a sample script in which Batman enters a nightclub in his complete costume and requests a booth near the wall, as he "shouldn't wish to attract attention". It was the scrupulously formal dialogue, and the way that Batman earnestly believed he could avoid standing out while wearing a skintight blue-and-grey costume, that convinced West of the character's comic potential.
With the death of Adam West on June 9, 2017, Burt Ward is now the sole surviving main Batman cast member.
Recurring villains[edit]




Frequent "special guest villains" (clockwise from left) Burgess Meredith as the Penguin, Cesar Romero as the Joker, and Frank Gorshin as the Riddler






Julie Newmar as Catwoman in the first and second seasons (1966-1967) of the show


List of Batman television series characters

Cesar Romero as the Joker...A green haired, purple suited clown with a maniacal laugh who leaves behind jokes as clues to his next crime.
Burgess Meredith as the Penguin...A waddling, cackling, chain smoking, umbrella-wielding menace in a top hat and monocle.
The Riddler played by:

Frank Gorshin (seasons 1 & 3 and the movie)
John Astin (season 2)...A giggling fiend whose costume alternates between green tights or a green derby and suit, both accented with question marks. He taunts Gotham City and the Caped Crusader with riddles.


The Catwoman played by:

Julie Newmar (seasons 1 and 2)
Eartha Kitt (season 3) ...A purring feline seductress in a tight black bodysuit with designs on Gotham City's riches and Batman himself.


Victor Buono as Professor William McElroy / King Tut...An Egyptologist with a split personality, who divides his time between being a university professor and a reincarnated version of the centuries old pharaoh.
Mr. Freeze, aka Dr. Shimmel, played by:

George Sanders (season 1)
Otto Preminger (season 2)
Eli Wallach (season 2)...A cool, cruel crook who must dwell in an environment 50 degrees below zero. His weapon of choice is a freeze-blast gun. In his first appearance the gun could also produce a heat/incendiary beam.


David Wayne as Jervis Tetch / Mad Hatter...A formally dressed baddie with a weakness for collecting hats.
Vincent Price as Egghead...A smug, bald headed genius whose crimes and speech patterns always involve eggs. ("Egg-zactly.")
Carolyn Jones as Marsha, Queen of Diamonds...A stunning, jewel-bedecked enchantress with very expensive tastes.
Cliff Robertson as Shame...A none too bright cowpoke whose partners at various times include Okie Annie and Calamity Jan.
Anne Baxter as Olga, Queen of the Cossacks...A Russian-accented redhead in cahoots with Egghead. (Baxter had earlier appeared in one story as "Zelda the Great", a master of illusion whose crimes were tied in with magic tricks.)
Milton Berle as Louie the Lilac...A stogie puffing gangster with an unhealthy attraction for flowers.


Production[edit]




A photo of Adam West as Batman from the television series.






A photo of Burt Ward as Robin from the television series.


Origin[edit]
In the early 1960s, Ed Graham Productions optioned the television rights to the comic strip Batman and planned a straightforward juvenile adventure show, much like Adventures of Superman and The Lone Ranger, to air on CBS on Saturday mornings.
East Coast ABC executive Yale Udoff, a Batman fan in his childhood, contacted ABC executives Harve Bennett and Edgar J. Scherick, who were already considering developing a television series based on a comic-strip action hero, to suggest a prime-time Batman series in the hip and fun style of The Man from U.N.C.L.E. When negotiations between CBS and Graham stalled, DC Comics quickly reobtained rights and made the deal with ABC, which farmed the rights out to 20th Century Fox to produce the series.[6]
In turn, 20th Century Fox handed the project to William Dozier and his production company, Greenway Productions. ABC and Fox were expecting a hip and fun—yet still serious—adventure show. However, Dozier, who had never before read comic books, concluded, after reading several Batman comics for research, that the only way to make the show work was to do it as a pop-art campy comedy.[7] Originally, espionage novelist Eric Ambler was to have scripted a TV movie that would launch the television series, but he dropped out after learning of Dozier's campy comedy approach. Eventually, two sets of screen tests were filmed, one with Adam West and Burt Ward and the other with Lyle Waggoner and Peter Deyell, with West and Ward winning the roles.
Season 1[edit]
Lorenzo Semple, Jr. had signed on as head script writer. He wrote the pilot script, and generally wrote in a pop-art adventure style. Stanley Ralph Ross, Stanford Sherman, and Charles Hoffman were script writers who generally leaned more toward campy comedy, and in Ross's case, sometimes outright slapstick and satire. It was originally intended as a one-hour show, but ABC pushed up the premiere date from fall 1966 to January of that year. With the network having only two early-evening half-hour time slots available, the show was split into two parts, to air twice a week in 30-minute installments. A cliffhanger connected the two episodes, echoing the old movie serials.
Some ABC affiliates weren't happy that ABC included a fourth commercial minute in every episode of Batman. One affiliate refused to air the series. The network insisted it needed the extra advertising revenue.[8]
The Joker, the Penguin, the Riddler, Catwoman, Mr. Freeze, and the Mad Hatter, villains who originated in the comic books, all appeared in the series, the plots for which were deliberately villain driven. According to the producers, Frank Gorshin was selected to portray the Riddler due to the fact that he was a Batman fan since childhood. Catwoman was portrayed by three different actresses during the series run: by Julie Newmar in the first two seasons, by Lee Meriwether in the feature film based on the series, and by Eartha Kitt in the third and final season.
Season 2[edit]
Semple's participation in the series decreased in the second season. In his autobiography Back to the Batcave, Adam West explained to Jeff Rovin, to whom he dictated the autobiography after rejecting an offer to contribute to The Official "Batman" Batbook, written by Joel Eisner, that when work on the second season commenced following the completion of the feature film, Dozier, his immediate deputy Howie Horwitz, and the rest of the cast and crew rushed their preparation. Thus, they failed to give themselves enough time to determine what they wanted to do with the series during season two.
Season 3[edit]




Yvonne Craig was added to the cast for season three in 1967, portraying Barbara Gordon/Batgirl.


By season three, ratings were falling and the future of the series seemed uncertain. To attract new viewers, Dozier opted to introduce a female character. He came up with the idea of using Batgirl, who in her civilian identity would be Commissioner Gordon's daughter, Barbara, and asked the editor of the Batman comics to further develop the character (who had made her debut in a 1966 issue of Detective Comics).[9] To convince ABC executives to introduce Batgirl as a regular on the show, a promotional short featuring Yvonne Craig as Batgirl and Tim Herbert as Killer Moth was produced.[10] The show was reduced to once a week, with mostly self-contained episodes, although the following week's villain would be introduced in a tag at the end of each episode, similar to a soap opera. Accordingly, the narrator's cliffhanger phrases were mostly eliminated, most episodes ending with him encouraging viewers to watch next week.[notes 1]
Aunt Harriet was reduced to just two cameo appearances during the third season, due to Madge Blake's poor health and the issue of trying to fit so many characters (Batman, Robin, Batgirl, Alfred, Commissioner Gordon, Chief O'Hara and a guest villain) into a half hour episode. Another cast change for the final season was replacing Julie Newmar, who had been a popular recurring guest villain as the Catwoman for the first two seasons. Singer-actress Eartha Kitt assumed the role for season three, as Newmar was working on the film Mackenna's Gold at that time, hence she was unable to appear. In the United States, Kitt's performance in the series marked the second mainstream television success of a black female, following Nichelle Nichols as Lt. Uhura in Star Trek and continued breaking the racial boundaries of the time. Kitt's performance as Catwoman would also, later, inspire Halle Berry's portrayal of the character in the 2004 film Catwoman, in which Berry would mimic Kitt's famous purrs. Frank Gorshin, the original actor to play the Riddler, returned for a single appearance after a one-season hiatus, during which John Astin made one appearance in the role.
The nature of the scripts and acting started to enter into the realm of surrealism. For example, the set's backgrounds became mere two-dimensional cut-outs against a stark black stage. In addition, the third season was much more topical, with references to hippies, mods, and distinctive 1960s slang, which the previous two seasons had avoided.
Cancellation[edit]
Near the end of the third season, ratings had dropped significantly, and ABC cancelled the show. But NBC had agreed to take over the series and was ready to continue. Before that could happen, it was discovered that someone had destroyed the Batman sets which cost hundreds of thousands of dollars to build, and the deal with NBC was lost.[11] Reruns of the series have been seen on a regular basis in the United States. They are currently shown on the classic TV networks Heroes & Icons on Saturday mornings, MeTV on Saturday nights,[12] weekdays dubbed in Spanish on TeleXitos, as well as Saturday mornings on IFC.[13]
Tie-in music[edit]
Several cast members recorded music tied into the series. Adam West released a single titled "Miranda", a country-tinged pop song that he actually performed in costume during live appearances in the 1960s. Frank Gorshin released a song titled "The Riddler", which was composed and arranged by Mel Tormé. Burgess Meredith recorded a spoken-word single called "The Escape" backed with "The Capture", which consisted of the Penguin narrating his recent crime spree to a jazz beat. Burt Ward recorded a song called "Boy Wonder, I Love You", written and arranged by Frank Zappa.
In 1966, Batman: The Exclusive Original Soundtrack Album was released on LP, featuring music by Nelson Riddle and snippets of dialogue from Adam West, Burt Ward, Burgess Meredith, Frank Gorshin, Anne Baxter (as Zelda the Great) and George Sanders (the first Mr. Freeze). The Batman Theme was included, along with titles like Batusi A Go! Go!, Batman Thaws Mr. Freeze and Batman Blues. It was reissued later on compact disc.
Episodes[edit]
Main article: List of Batman (TV series) episodes
Adaptations[edit]






This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (July 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)



The show featured numerous adaptations of various Batman comics stories – particularly in its first season. These first-season episodes were adaptations:

The episodes "Hi Diddle Riddle" and "Smack in the Middle" were adaptations of "Remarkable Ruse of the Riddler" from Batman #171 (May 1965), written by Gardner Fox; in it, the Riddler, jealous of the attention Batman is giving the Mole Hill Mob, arranges a trap so Batman will apprehend the gang and give the Riddler the Caped Crusader's undivided attention.
The episodes "Fine Feathered Finks" and "The Penguin's a Jinx" are based on "Partners in Plunder!" from Batman #169 (February 1965), written by France Eddie Herron; the only difference is the Penguin steals the jeweled meteorite (which was mentioned in the comic), instead of kidnapping Dawn Robbins (who did not appear in the comic).
Many events of the episodes "The Joker Is Wild" and "Batman Is Riled" are based on the silver age comic book story "The Joker's Utility Belt" from Batman #73 (October 1952) by David Vern Reed.
The episodes "Instant Freeze" and "Rats Like Cheese" were inspired by "The Ice Crimes of Mr. Zero" from Batman #121 (February 1959) by Dave Wood and Sheldon Moldoff.
The episodes "Zelda The Great" and "A Death Worse Than Fate" are based on "Batman's Inescapable Doom-Trap!" from Detective Comics #346 (December 1965) by John Broome. Although the evil character Eivol Ekdol appeared in the story, Zelda did not; instead, the magician was a man named Carnado.
The episodes "The Thirteenth Hat" and "Batman Stands Pat" borrow several elements from several comic book stories such as "The Mad Hatter of Gotham City" by Bill Finger and Sheldon Moldoff, from Detective Comics #230 (April 1956), and "The New Crimes of the Mad Hatter" by Dave Wood and Sheldon Moldoff from Batman #161 (February 1964). Also the Mad Hatter's plan of impersonating the sculptor working on a Batman statue for the city (for which Batman himself is, of course, posing) in an attempt to steal Batman's cowl comes from the Batman #49 story "The Scoop of the Century!" (October 1948) by Bill Finger.
The episodes "The Penguin Goes Straight" and "Not Yet, He Ain't" have a plot point of the Penguin framing Batman for a theft actually comes from Detective Comics #58 (December 1941) by Bill Finger, which is ironic as it was to be the issue in which the Penguin first appeared.
The episodes "The Joker Trumps an Ace" and "Batman Sets the Pace" have several plot points similar to the comic story "A Hairpin, a Hoe, a Hacksaw, a Hole In the Ground!" by Bill Finger, from Batman #53 (June 1949).
The episodes "Death in Slow Motion" and "The Riddler's False Notion" used a few elements from "The Joker's Comedy Capers" by Gardner Fox, from Detective #341 (July 1965), only replacing the main villain of the Joker with the Riddler.

Crossover with The Green Hornet TV series[edit]
Main article: The Green Hornet (TV series)
The Green Hornet and Kato on Batman[edit]
Van Williams and Bruce Lee made a cameo appearance as the Green Hornet and Kato in "window cameos" while the Batman and Robin were climbing a building. This was in part one of a two-part second-season episode of the Batman TV series, "The Spell of Tut", which aired on September 28, 1966.[14]
Later that same season, the Green Hornet and Kato appeared in the two-part second-season episodes A Piece of the Action and Batman's Satisfaction, which aired on March 1–2, 1967. In the two episodes, the Green Hornet and Kato are in Gotham City to bust a counterfeit stamp ring run by Colonel Gumm (portrayed by Roger C. Carmel).[15] The Batman's Satisfaction episode leads to a mixed fight, with both Batman & Robin and The Green Hornet & Kato fighting Colonel Gumm and his gang. Once Gumm's crew was defeated, Batman and Robin squared off against The Green Hornet and Kato, resulting in a stand-off that was interrupted by the police. In this episode, Batman, Robin and the police consider the Green Hornet and Kato to be criminals, although Batman and Robin were cordial to the duo in the earlier window appearance. There is also a mention of The Green Hornet TV series on the Batman TV series episode The Impractical Joker (episode 55, Part 1, aired November 16, 1966): while watching TV together, Alfred, Dick Grayson and Bruce Wayne (who says, "It's time to watch The Green Hornet", and you hear the Hornet buzzing sound) are interrupted by the Joker; then, after the interruption, The Green Hornet TV series theme music is heard.
Batman and Robin on The Green Hornet[edit]
In the December 9, 1966 Green Hornet episode "The Secret Of The Sally Bell", the Batmobile can be seen revolving on its turntable floor in the batcave on a bad guy's TV set. In the February 3, 1967 Green Hornet episode "Ace in the Hole" (which aired between the September 1966 and March 1967 Batman appearances mentioned above), Batman and Robin can be seen climbing a building on a television set. There was one other Green Hornet & Kato appearance that was not on the Batman TV series nor on The Green Hornet TV series: a segment of the Milton Berle Show/The Hollywood Palace aired in the Fall of 1966 brought together The Green Hornet and Kato (Van Williams and Bruce Lee), and Batman (Adam West), in a comedy sketch with Milton Berle, in which Bruce Lee demonstrates his martial arts expertise. Burt Ward as "Robin" was not included in this appearance.
Reception[edit]
The live action television show was extraordinarily popular, called "the biggest TV phenomenon of the mid-1960s".[16] At the height of its popularity, it was the only prime-time television show other than Peyton Place to be broadcast twice in one week as part of its regular schedule, airing at 7:30 pm Wednesdays and Thursdays. Episodes of the show were filmed as two-part cliffhangers, with each storyline beginning on Wednesday and ending on the Thursday episode. (In the second season, a pair of three-parters was also seen; at the very end of the Thursday night segment, a brief tag featuring the next week's villain would be shown, such as, "Next week: Batman jousts with The Joker again!" This started on the third week of the series' run and continued until the end of season two. The first episode of a storyline would typically end with Batman and Robin being in a deathtrap, while the narrator (Dozier) would tell viewers to watch the next night with the repeated phrase: "Tune in tomorrow—same Bat-time, same Bat-channel!" Even decades after the show ceased production, this catch-phrase remains a long-running punchline in popular culture.
The "Captain Crocodile" episode of the TV series The Monkees featured a parody segment devoted to "Frogman" and "Reuben the Tadpole" (played, respectively, by Peter Tork and Davy Jones) combating the criminal forces of Michael Nesmith and Micky Dolenz.[17]
Television critics Alan Sepinwall and Matt Zoller Seitz ranked Batman as the 82nd greatest American television show of all time in their 2016 book titled TV (The Book), stating that "West's performance, the brilliance of which has required decades to be properly recognized, played as if series creator William Dozier and chief developer Lorenzo Semple, Jr., had taken the establishment's fantasy of itself and dolled it up in tights and a cape .... The anarchic gangs of supervillains and henchmen that kept trying to capture or destroy Gotham City stood in for the forces of chaos that kept threatening to engulf so-called civilized America throughout the sixties, only made colorfully grotesque and knowingly silly."[18] In 1997, TV Guide ranked the episodes "The Purr-fect Crime" and "Better Luck Next Time" #86 on its list of the 100 Greatest Episodes.[19] In 2009, "Better Luck Next Time" was ranked #72.[20]
Public service announcements[edit]
The Batman character appeared in two public service announcements.
U.S. Savings Bonds[edit]
In 1966, West, as Batman, encouraged schoolchildren to heed then-President Lyndon B. Johnson's call for them to buy U.S. Savings stamps, a children's version of U.S. Savings bonds, to support the Vietnam War.[21]
U.S. Department of Labor[edit]
In a 1974 PSA for the U.S. Department of Labor Wage & Hour Division narrated by William Dozier, Batman and Robin were tied to a post amid the threat of a ticking time bomb, but Batgirl (Yvonne Craig) refused to release them because she was paid less than Robin (Burt Ward), in violation of the Federal Equal Pay Law.[22] Dick Gautier played Batman this time, because West was, at the time, trying to distance himself from the role.
Reunions[edit]






This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (July 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)




In 1977, Adam West and Burt Ward returned as voice actors for the second Filmation-produced animated series, The New Adventures of Batman.
In 1979, West, Ward, and Frank Gorshin reunited and reprised their respective roles on NBC for Hanna-Barbera's two Legends of the Superheroes television specials.
In the 1980s, several cast members teamed up for a series of celebrity editions of Family Feud. The participants were Adam West, Burt Ward, Yvonne Craig, Lee Meriwether, and Vincent Price.
In 1984 West would once again reprise his role as Batman in animated form when he succeeded Olan Soule in the final two seasons of Super Friends.
In 2003, West and Ward reunited for a tongue-in-cheek television movie titled Return to the Batcave: The Misadventures of Adam and Burt which combined dramatized recreations of the filming of the original series (with younger actors standing in for the stars), with modern footage of West and Ward searching for a stolen Batmobile. The film included cameo appearances by Newmar, Gorshin, and Lee Meriwether, as well as Lyle Waggoner, who had been an early candidate for the role of Batman. Yvonne Craig did not appear in the movie—she reportedly disliked the script. The movie was released on DVD in May 2005.

Legacy[edit]






This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (July 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)



The series' stars, Adam West and Burt Ward, were typecast for decades afterwards, with West especially finding himself unable to escape the reputation of a hammy, camp actor. However, years after the series' impact faded, an episode of Batman: The Animated Series paid tribute to West with an episode titled "Beware The Gray Ghost". In this episode, West himself provided the voice of an aging star of a superhero television series Bruce Wayne had watched as a child and from which he later found inspiration. This gave West new popularity with the next generation of fans. He also played Gotham City's Mayor Grange as a somewhat recurring role in The Batman. In addition, West played the voice of Thomas Wayne, Bruce Wayne's father in the episode "Chill of the Night" from the series Batman: The Brave and the Bold.
Batmobile[edit]




The 1966 television Batmobile, built by George Barris from a Lincoln Futura concept car


The original Batmobile from the 1960s TV series was auctioned on January 19, 2013, at the Barrett-Jackson auction house in Scottsdale, Arizona.[23] It was sold for $4.2 million.[24]
References in popular culture[edit]
References In animation[edit]
Referenced in Batman: The Brave and the Bold[edit]
The animated television series Batman: The Brave and the Bold is influenced by the 1960s television series. The opening credits feature Batman rope-climbing up a building, something that Adam West and Burt Ward often did in the show.[25] Several villains from the 1960s show including King Tut, Egghead, Mad Hatter, Archer, Bookworm, False Face, Black Widow, Siren, Marsha Queen of Diamonds, Louie the Lilac, Ma Parker, and Shame make cameo appearances as prisoners at Iron Heights prison in the episode "Day of the Dark Knight!" They are all captured by Batman and Green Arrow during a mass escape attempt. In Mayhem of the Music Meister! the same villains have brief cameos. The episode "Game Over for Owlman!" shows a room in the Batcave containing "souvenirs" of deathtraps that the Joker employed in the 1960s series, with accompanying flashbacks: the giant key from the "Human Key Duplicator" from "The Impractical Joker", the slot machine-controlled electric chair from "The Joker Goes to School", and the giant clam from "The Joker's Hard Times". The episode "The Color of Revenge!" begins with a flashback to the time of the 1960s television series, using attributes such as the red Batphone, the Shakespeare bust, the sliding bookcase, the Batpoles, Robin in his old television-series costume, and the shot of Batman and Robin fastening their seat belts in the Batmobile. Additionally, the Adam West Batman briefly appears in "Night of the Batmen!" as part of an army of Batmen gathered across the Multiverse.
Referenced in Young Justice[edit]
The Young Justice episode "Schooled" briefly references the show, as well, by featuring a Shakespeare bust in Bruce's office at the Waynetech building in Metropolis. As a further homage to the series, Bruce is shown accessing an emergency Batsuit hidden in his desk by flipping a switch concealed within the bust.
Referenced in Robot Chicken[edit]
Adam West and Burt Ward lend their voices and likeness to the third DC Comics Special on Robot Chicken. In the plot, when Batman brings over a Superman from another dimension to make him jealous, Superman retaliates by bringing the Adam West Batman, who trumps the Robot Chicken Batman by addressing the glucose issue of muffins and dancing. He is later seen battling the Arkham versions of Batman's villains and is killed by Penguin's anthrax gas. Burt Ward kidnaps him as well as the Robot Chicken Robin and takes them to the Lazarus Pit, where he resurrects West's Batman and makes himself younger to relive the glory days. He only kidnapped Robot Chicken Robin so he could have his outfit.
References in live action[edit]
Referenced in Batman Forever[edit]
A line spoken by Robin (Chris O'Donnell) in Batman Forever is a homage to the television Robin's catch-phrase exclamations that started "Holy" and sometimes ended "Batman!" - for instance "Holy bargain basements, Batman!" (from the television series' first season) and "Holy flypaper, Batman!" (from the television series' second season). During the movie, Robin says "Holy rusted metal, Batman!" after the duo climbs onto twisted metal girders beside some water. This catchphrase also appeared for a time in Batman comic books.
Referenced in Birds of Prey[edit]
In the third episode of Birds of Prey "Prey for the Hunter", the famous William Shakespeare bust from the series has a cameo. However, instead of bending the neck back to expose the button, it is simply turned to the left, giving it the same function—exposing a hidden passageway.
Referenced in Animal House[edit]
In the film, a damaged car belonging to Flounder's older brother (which was earlier reported stolen) was re-purposed for the climactic scene by Bluto and D-Day. The car initially appears as a parade float depicting a layer cake, with the words 'Eat Me' on the front; when the float is cut away, it reveals the car repainted in black and red, in a style similar to the Batmobile of the television series, but also incorporating a black armored turret with the word 'DEATHMOBILE' on it in red. This would technically be anachronistic, as the film is set in 1962, but given the parodic nature of the film this is generally ignored.
References in video games[edit]
Referenced in Batman: Arkham[edit]

In the Batman: Arkham Origins video game, exclusive DLC for the PlayStation 3 includes a Batman skin based on the Batman TV series.
In Batman: Arkham Knight, the stone bust containing a hidden button used in the TV series as the secret entrance lever to the Batcave appears as one of the game's Easter eggs. The stone bust concealing a button can be seen and interacted with in the Clock Tower and Wayne Office areas of the game. The Batman skin is also featured as DLC in with the 1960s series Robin and Catwoman skins, as well as the Batmobile.
Rather than having a massive grin as in the comics the Joker in the Arkham games has a painted on smile to make his already unnaturally large smile even larger. The painted on smile and the general look of it massively resembles Cesar Romero's Joker, who also had a painted on smile along with the red lips.

Referenced in Lego Batman 3: Beyond Gotham[edit]
In Lego Batman 3: Beyond Gotham, an extra level is based on the 1966 Batman TV series, along with characters including: 1966 Batman, 1966 Robin; 1966 Batgirl, 1966 Joker, 1966 Catwoman, 1966 Riddler, and 1966 Penguin. Also, Adam West is a playable character. The 1966 Batmobile is also included as a drivable vehicle. The end credits sequence remakes the Batclimb window cameos.
Spin-offs & Sequels[edit]
Batman (1966 film)[edit]
Main article: Batman (1966 film)
A film based on the television show, Batman, was released in 1966. The film was originally intended to be produced before the series as a way to introduce the series to the public. However, the series' premiere was moved up and the film was forced to wait until the summer hiatus after the first season. The film was produced quickly to get into theatres prior to the start of season two of the television series.
The film did not initially perform well at the cinema. Originally, the movie had been conceived to help sell the television series abroad, but the success of the series in America was sufficient publicity. The film was shot after season one was filmed. The movie's budget allowed for producers to build the Batboat and lease a helicopter that would be made into the Batcopter, both of which were used in the second and third seasons of the television show.[26]
Batman: Return of the Caped Crusaders[edit]
Main article: Batman: Return of the Caped Crusaders
West and Ward announced at the Mad Monster Party that one or two Batman animated movies would be released in 2016 with the two doing voiced roles as their characters for the show's 50th anniversary along with Julie Newmar returning.[27][28]
The trailer for Batman: Return of the Caped Crusaders made its debut on August 17, 2016.[29] The film was released on Digital HD and Digital Media on October 11, 2016 and on DVD and Blu-ray November 1, 2016.[30]
Batman vs. Two-Face[edit]
Main article: Batman vs. Two-Face
A sequel to Batman: Return of the Caped Crusaders called Batman vs. Two-Face was released on October 10, 2017. The film starred William Shatner voicing Two-Face as the main antagonist.[31][32] Adam West died before it was released;[33] however, he did complete his voiceover work before his passing. This was one of Adam West's final roles before he passed away from leukemia.
The Batman '66 comic[edit]
Main article: Batman '66
In 2013, DC began publication of Batman '66, a comic book series telling all-new stories set in the world of the 1966–68 TV series. Jeff Parker writes the series, which features cover art by Mike Allred and interior art by different artists each issue.[34][35][36] In the course of this series, the Bookworm, the Minstrel, Sandman, Olga Queen of the Cossacks, Zelda The Great, Shame, and Marsha Queen of Diamonds all have their first appearance in Batman comics. Penguin, Joker, Riddler, Catwoman and Mr. Freeze also appear in the series. Issue #3 of Batman '66 introduced the Red Hood and Dr. Quinn into the series continuity. In issue #7, Batman used a new vehicle, the Bat-Jet, to follow False-Face to Mount Rushmore. The series was to have introduced Killer Croc into the continuity, as well as a new villainess named Cleopatra. In April 2014, the first five issues were compiled into the Batman '66 Vol. 1 trade paperback. Kevin Smith and Ralph Garman likewise worked on a Batman and Green Hornet crossover, titled Batman '66 meets The Green Hornet. The six-issue mini-series began publication in June 2014.[37] Jeff Parker wrote a Batman and The Man from U.N.C.L.E. team-up titled Batman '66 meets The Man from U.N.C.L.E. released in 2016.[38] Ian Edginton wrote a Batman team up with John Steed and Emma Peel of The Avengers titled Batman '66/Steed and Mrs. Peel.[39][40][41] Batman teams up with Wonder Woman in the crossover team up "Batman' 66 Meets Wonder Woman '77 writing by both Parker and Marc Andreyko.[42] Whether Batman '66 is represented in one of the current New 52 DC Multiverse alternative Earths is uncertain. Thus far, this has not been the case, although several such alternative Earths inhabitants and representative metahumans remain undisclosed.[43]
Other comics[edit]
Bluewater Comics has released a series of comics that take their cue from the TV show. They are The Mis-Adventures of Adam West, The Secret Lives of Julie Newmar, and Burt Ward, Boy Wonder and are similar in tone to the TV series. The Mis-Adventures of Adam West had a four-issue miniseries, and a regular series that ran nine issues. The Secret Lives of Julie Newmar was a four-issue miniseries and Burt Ward, Boy Wonder was going to be a four-issue miniseries, but has not yet been published.
Pinball machine[edit]
The company Stern released the pinball machine Batman '66, based on the TV series, in December 2016. It is the first Stern game that features a full color LCD in the backbox instead of a Dot-matrix display. There are three different versions of the pinball machine: Super Limited Edition, Limited Edition and Premium.[44][45]
DVD, digital media and Blu-ray release[edit]


DVD/Blu-ray name
Region 1
Region 2
Region 4


The Complete First Season (DVD)
November 11, 2014
TBA
TBA


The Second Season: Part One (DVD)
February 10, 2015
TBA
TBA


The Second Season: Part Two (DVD)
July 14, 2015
TBA
TBA


The Complete Third Season (DVD)
November 3, 2015[46]
TBA
TBA


The Complete Series (DVD & Blu-ray)
November 11, 2014
16 Feb. 2015
TBA


In January 2014, Conan O'Brien posted on his Twitter account, and Warner Bros. later confirmed, that Warner Bros. would release an official DVD and Blu-ray boxed set of the complete series sometime in 2014.[47]
On April 10, 2014, the website tvshowsondvd.com quoted Burt Ward in saying that Warner Bros. would release the complete series on November 11, 2014, in time for the holiday season from 20th Century Fox Television, and that Adam West and he were doing special features for the release.
Prior to the announcement, multiple conflicting reports were given for the reason the series had not been released officially. These included:

Negotiations between DC Comics (and parent company Warner Bros.), owners of the Batman character and 20th Century Fox, owners of the program itself.[notes 2]
Greenway/ABC/Fox rights issues: The Batman series was conceived as an equal partnership between William Dozier's Greenway Productions and Fox in 1964, before Fox entered into a separate agreement with ABC to produce the series in 1965. With three companies involved almost from the outset, some speculation indicates 'these rights' are tangled even before the DC Comics character ownership rights are to be considered. Moreover:

In 2006, Deborah Dozier Potter, "the successor-in-interest to Greenway Productions" sued Fox for allegedly withholding monies under the Fox/ABC agreement.[48][49] Dozier Potter further claimed that this came to her attention when, in March 2005, "she considered releasing the series on DVD", implying that (from her perspective at least) Greenway/Dozier Potter has some say in the matter of potential DVD release of the series. The case was resolved/dismissed in November 2007. In February 2005, John Stacks had approached Deborah Dozier Potter to market the series on DVD. There were many offers and lots of interest in the release of the series, as can be read in Joel Eisner's The Official Batbook Revised Bat Edition 2008.[notes 3]


Other complications/rights issues:

Christopher D. Heer, writing at the "1966 Batman Message Board", clarified a quote by moderator Lee Kirkham, noting that there will likely be the need for complicated deals regarding cameos, since "...at least some of the cameos were done as uncredited, unpaid walk-ons – which means that Fox does NOT have home video clearances for them. Either those scenes would have to be cut or an agreement reached with the actors."[50]
Kirkham's initial quote also noted that, alongside music clearance issues, there could also be problems over some of the costumes, and the original Batmobile:






"It may surprise you, but then there are also rights issues concerning the design of the unique Batmobile design used in the show, and possibly a separate issue regarding some of the costumes as well!"[51]



The series, under the Fox/ABC deal, is still in syndication, and regularly shown on a number of channels around the world, currently appearing in the United States on Me-TV and IFC as of July 4, 2014. Until 2014, only the 1966 feature film was available on DVD from 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment for nonbroadcast viewing in North America. This affected the 2003 television movie reunion Return to the Batcave: The Misadventures of Adam and Burt, also released to DVD, which was able to make use of footage only from the 1966 movie.
With Batman being unavailable for home-video release until 2014, an unusual situation occurred in which material that would be considered DVD featurettes was released separately. In 2004, Image Entertainment released Holy Batmania, a two-DVD set that included documentaries on the making of the series, as well as rare footage such as the original screen tests of the cast and Lyle Waggoner.[52] In 2008, Adam West released a privately issued DVD with the tongue-in-cheek title Adam West Naked for which he recorded anecdotes regarding all 120 episodes of the series.[53] In 2013 PBS aired an episode of Pioneers of Television called "Superheroes" that featured interviews with Adam West and Burt Ward, and talked about the 1960s TV series. It was released on DVD March 11, 2013.
Also in 2013, PBS produced and transmitted a documentary titled Superheroes: A Never-Ending Battle. This documentary talked a little bit about the series and included an interview with Adam West.
On November 11, 2014, Warner Bros. released the full 120-episode Batman collection on Blu-ray and DVD with a variety of extras including a miniature Batmobile, a 32-page episode guide, and Adam West Scrapbook.[54] A second box released on Warner Bros.' own batmanondvd website replaces the Batmobile and the trading cards with a script from the episode "The Joker is Wild" and a bonus box containing the movie and the "Adam West Naked" documentary. This series is also available at the iTunes Store.
Collectibles[edit]
Starting in 1966, an enormous amount of Batman merchandise was manufactured and marketed to cash-in on the TV show's vast popularity. This includes trading cards, bubblegum cards, scale model kits of the Batmobile and Batboat, coloring books, and board games. Items from this particular era have gained substantial collector appeal with their remarkable variety, scarcity, and style.
One of the most desired collectibles involves the episodes introducing Catwoman ("The Purr-fect Crime" / "Better Luck Next Time"), which were the subject of a View-Master reel & booklet set in 1966 (Sawyers Packet # B492). While the series was first-run on ABC, packet cover indicia reflected the "Bat Craze" cultural phenomenon by referring to the booklet as a Batbooklet, Dynamically illustrated. By the time the television series was cancelled in 1968 and GAF had taken over the View-Master product, Batbooklet was removed in favor of then-standard View-Master packaging for all future releases in the decades to follow, right up the period when the standard packet line was discontinued. The first season's superimposed fight onomatopoeias were not used for the View-Master's scenes of fights. Instead, black-lined "blast" balloons (transparent inside), and series-like onomatopoeias were illustrated and superimposed over fight images.
The popularity of the TV series has carried several decades after its debut; toy company Mattel has made the 1966 Batmobile in various scales for the Hot Wheels product line. The Batmobile with Batboat were also produced under the Matchbox and Corgi names in the UK, during this period.
Warner Bros. acquired merchandising rights to the series in 2012,[2] and in 2013 Mattel released an action figure line based on the television series. To date only a single series of figures have been produced: Batman, the Riddler, the Joker, the Penguin, Catwoman and exclusive to a boxset Robin. Two Batman variants were also produced a limited SDCC exclusive figure with an action feature that replicates the famous Batusi dance and a Surf's Up Batman figure complete with surfboard and trunks. Each figure has the likeness of their respective actor (with Catwoman resembling Newmar and the Riddler resembling Gorshin) and came packaged with a display base and collector card. A Batmobile was also sold to retail making this the first time the classic model has been produced for action figures in the 6-inch scale.
In 2013, Hong Kong–based entertainment collectible manufacturer Hot Toys produced  1⁄6 scale versions of West's Batman and Ward's Robin.
Notes[edit]


^ Adam West, dictating Back to the Batcave to Jeff Rovin, admitted to having resented the development; in his words, "...We were now calculating and titillating. These kinds of things are always short-term solutions to problems...."
^ From Lambert, David (December 5, 2005). "Batman – 1966 Batman Series Still Not Coming To DVD Yet". Archived from the original on April 16, 2008. Retrieved April 5, 2008. 

Fox (which owns the footage) and DC Comics (owner of the characters, and sister company of Warner Bros.) are still deep in the process of sorting out the legalities and licensing situations for this release. Other license issues may be involved, as well, such as music.


^ The relevant passage reads: "The lawsuit filed by Debra Dozier Potter was dismissed with prejudice on 11/26/07. Furthermore, a notice of unconditional settlement was filed by the Plaintff on 11/19/07. The case is DEBORAH DOZIER POTTER VS TWENTIETH CENTURY FOX FILM CORPORATION Case No BC357067."


Broadcast history[edit]
International broadcast[edit]


List of broadcasts





United States

ABC (January 12, 1966 – March 14, 1968)


United Kingdom

ITV (1989–1992)
Channel 4 (1993–1996) (Channel 4 started running the series in 1993 at the rate of one episode a week. Then: ITV4 started running the series in 2011 at the rate of one episode a week.)
ITV4 (2011–2014) (18 Years Of Channels : Channel 4 started running the series in 1993 at the rate of one episode a week. Then: ITV4 started running the series in 2011 at the rate of one episode a week.)
The Children's Channel/The Family Channel/Bravo (1993–2001)


Australia

The 0-10 Network
Seven Network
Fox Classics
SBS Viceland







References[edit]


^ "Top 10 Comic to TV Adaptations". IGN. June 22, 2007. Retrieved August 15, 2010. 
^ "A History of Batman on TV". IGN. July 17, 2008. Retrieved August 15, 2010. 
^ Glen Weldon; Michael Kantor. Superheroes!:Capes cowls and the creation of comic book culture. pp. 162–63. 
^ "Trivia: Batman (TV series 1966–68)". IMDB. Retrieved 2017-08-22. 
^ "News article and memo regarding installing seat belts". Retrieved 2017-08-22. 
^ Konow, David (20 February 2014). "A Tribute to the 1966 Batman TV Series". Tested. Whalerock Industries. Retrieved 22 April 2014. 
^ Gabilliet, Jean-Paul (2010). Of Comics and Men: A Cultural History of American Comic Books. Bart Beaty and Nick Nguyen (translators). University Press of Mississippi. p. 59. ISBN 978-1-60473-267-2. 
^ "ABC and Batman's Fourth Commercial Spot". Television Obscurities. Retrieved 5 October 2017. 
^ Cassell, Dewey (February 2010). "Growing Up Gordon: The Early Years of Batgirl". Back Issue!. TwoMorrows Publishing (38): 65–70. 
^ "Batgirl and the Batman Phenomenon". June 11, 2003. Retrieved March 24, 2007. 
^ "Batman TV show turns 50". The Nation
^ WOIO schedule – Titan TV.com
^ [1]
^ Eisner, Joel The Official Batman Batbook Contemporary Books, Inc. 1986 ISBN 0-8092-5035-7 p. 70
^ Eisner pp. 114–15
^ "Science Fiction". Pioneers of Television. Season 2. January 18, 2011. PBS. 
^ "The Monkees parody Television (in 1967)". YouTube. 
^ Sepinwall, Alan; Seitz, Matt Zoller (6 September 2016). TV (The Book): Two Experts Pick the Greatest American Shows of All Time. Grand Central Publishing. ISBN 978-1455588190.  |access-date= requires |url= (help)
^ "Special Collector's Issue: 100 Greatest Episodes of All Time". TV Guide (June 28–July 4). 1997.  |access-date= requires |url= (help)
^ "TV Guide's Top 100 Episodes". Rev/Views. Retrieved July 4, 2016. 
^ Batman for U.S. Savings Bonds, ca. 1966, U.S. National Archives, YouTube
^ Batman, ca. 1973, U.S. National Archives, YouTube
^ "Holy hot wheels! TV's original Batmobile to be sold a big Arizona car auction". Washington Post. Archived from the original on September 11, 2016. Retrieved November 30, 2012. 
^ "Batmobile Sold: Original Batman Car Auctioned". Sky News. January 20, 2013. Retrieved March 18, 2013. 
^ Worley, Rob M. (October 27, 2008). "Batman The Brave and the Bold – Rise of the Blue Beetle". Mania.com. Archived from the original on February 11, 2009. Retrieved June 17, 2010. 
^ "Batman (1966 film)". Wikipedia. 2017-05-05. 
^ Lussier, Germain (March 30, 2015). "Animated Batman 1966 Movie Coming in 2016". /Film. 
^ Greenfield, Dan (April 1, 2015). "Exclusive: Julie Newmar Will Be In Batman 66 Animated Movie, As of March 2016, no new updates". 13th Dimension. 
^ The Cast of Batman '66 Returns for a New Animated Movie
^ Slead, Evan (August 17, 2016). "Adam West, Burt Ward, Julie Newmar return for animated Batman movie". Entertainment Weekly. 
^ Seifert, Mark (October 6, 2016). "BATMANNNN! William Shatner Will Play Two-Face In Batman: Return of the Caped Crusaders Sequel". Bleeding Cool. Retrieved October 6, 2016. 
^ https://www.instagram.com/p/BLPYqm3hNAL/
^ News, A. B. C. (June 10, 2017). "'Batman' TV star Adam West dies at 88". ABC News. Retrieved June 11, 2017. 
^ "DC Comics To Publish A Batman Sixties TV Show Comic, As Well As A Batusi Exclusive Toy For San Diego Comic Con". Bleeding Cool Comic Book, Movie, TV News. 
^ "DC Comics To Publish A Batman Jeff Parker Writes Batman 1966, Digital-First Comic". Newsarama.com. 
^ Batman '66 2013
^ "Kevin Smith & Ralph Garman Announce New Batman/Green Hornet Project – (DCAA 206)". YouTube. 
^ "Preview: Batman '66 Meets The Man From U.N.C.L.E. #5". Comic Book Resources. January 18, 2016. 
^ http://www.dccomics.com/comics/batman-%E2%80%9966-meets-steed-and-mrs-peel-2016/batman-%E2%80%9966-meets-steed-and-mrs-peel-1
^ "Batman '66 Meets Steed And Mrs Peel In New Crossover". Archived from the original on 16 June 2016. Retrieved 12 June 2016. 
^ "Batman '66 Meets Steed and Mrs. Peel: Ian Edginton and Matthew Dow Smith Unite Two TV Icons". Retrieved 12 June 2016. 
^ Steinberg, Brian (October 7, 2016). "Wonder Woman From 1970s to Meet 1960s Batman in DC Cross-Over Project". Variety. 
^ The Multiversity Guidebook: January 2015
^ http://www.hardcoregamer.com/2017/06/03/hands-on-with-the-physical-batman-66-premium-pinball/257142/
^ http://arcadeheroes.com/2016/10/13/stern-officially-unveils-batman-66/
^ http://tvshowsondvd.com/news/Batman-Season-3/21322
^ Lambert, David (January 15, 2014). "Batman - POW! BAM! SOCKO! Team Coco Has the 'West' Word We've All Waited For!". TV Shows on DVD. Retrieved January 15, 2014. 
^ Lacey, Gord (August 19, 2006). "Batman DVD news: New Lawsuit – Will We Ever See Batman on DVD?". TVShowsOnDVD.com. Archived from the original on April 15, 2008. Retrieved April 5, 2008. 
^ "Fox Hit With Claim for Net Profits on 'Batman' Series | Entertainment & Arts > Broadcasting Industry from AllBusiness.com". Web.archive.org. Archived from the original on January 8, 2009. Retrieved August 2, 2012. 
^ "Re: Blog talks about Batman DVD ownership woes" Reply #42". Web.archive.org. January 25, 2008. Archived from the original on January 15, 2009. Retrieved April 5, 2008. 
^ "Internet Archive Wayback Machine". Web.archive.org. October 7, 2007. Archived from the original on November 21, 2007. Retrieved July 14, 2012. 
^ "listing for Holy Batmania". Amazon.com. Archived from the original on June 19, 2010. Retrieved June 17, 2010. 
^ "Adam West gets back in the Batmobile | Hero Complex – movies, comics, fanboy fare – latimes.com". Herocomplex.latimes.com. March 20, 2009. Retrieved February 22, 2010. 
^ "Holy Smokes 'Batman,' The '60s Series Is Out On DVD". November 17, 2014. 


External links[edit]



Wikimedia Commons has media related to Batman (TV series).





Wikiquote has quotations related to: Batman (TV series)




Television in the United States portal
Superhero fiction portal
1960s portal



Batman on IMDb
Batman at TV.com
"Batman" at the Museum of Broadcast Communications
Batman-related interview videos at the Archive of American Television
"Jean Boone – Interview with Cast of Batman, The Movie (1966)" from the Texas Archive of the Moving Image







v
t
e


Batman (TV series)



Characters adapted
for the series



Alfred
Batgirl / Barbara Gordon
Batman / Bruce Wayne
Catwoman
Clock King
Commissioner James Gordon
Green Hornet
The Joker
Kato
The Mad Hatter
Mr. Freeze
The Penguin
The Riddler
Robin / Richard "Dick" Grayson





Characters created
for the series



Egghead





Episodes



"Hi Diddle Riddle"
"Smack in the Middle"
"Fine Feathered Finks"
"The Penguin's a Jinx"
"The Joker Is Wild"
"Batman Is Riled"
"Instant Freeze"
"Rats Like Cheese"
"Zelda the Great"
"A Death Worse Than Fate"
"The Joker Goes to School"
"He Meets His Match, The Grisly Ghoul"
"True or False-Face"
"Holy Rat Race"
"The Penguin Goes Straight"
"Not Yet, He Ain't"
"Shoot a Crooked Arrow"
"Walk the Straight and Narrow"
"Hot Off the Griddle"
"The Cat and the Fiddle"
"Marsha, Queen of Diamonds"
"Marsha's Scheme of Diamonds"
"The Zodiac Crimes"
"The Joker's Hard Times"
"The Penguin Declines"
"Enter Batgirl, Exit Penguin"
"Londinium"





Vehicles & gadgetry



Batmobile
Batboat
Batcopter
Batcycle
Batsuit
Bat phone
Batcomputer
Batbelt





In-story locations



Gotham City
Batcave
Wayne Manor





Related topics




Shows



Legends of the Superheroes
The New Adventures of Batman
Return to the Batcave: The Misadventures of Adam and Burt
The Green Hornet
The Man from U.N.C.L.E.
The Avengers
Wonder Woman





Films



Batman
Batman: Return of the Caped Crusaders
Batman vs. Two-Face





Music



"Batman Theme"





Lists



Cast members
Holy...





Other



Batman '66
Batman XXX: A Porn Parody
Bat Pussy
Batusi















v
t
e


Batman franchise media



Live-action television



Batman

episodes


Legends of the Superheroes
OnStar commercials
Birds of Prey
Return to the Batcave: The Misadventures of Adam and Burt
Gotham

episodes

season 3
4


characters







Live-action
serials and films



Batman (1943)
Batman and Robin
Batman (1966)




1989–97 film series



Batman (1989)
Batman Returns
Batman Forever
Batman & Robin





The Dark Knight Trilogy



Batman Begins
The Dark Knight
The Dark Knight Rises





DC Extended Universe



Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice
Justice League








Animated television




Featuring Batman



The Adventures of Batman
The Batman/Superman Hour
The Batman/Tarzan Adventure Hour
The New Adventures of Batman
Batman: The Animated Series

episodes


The New Batman Adventures

episodes


Batman Beyond

episodes


The Batman

episodes


Batman: The Brave and the Bold

episodes


Beware the Batman

episodes







With other heroes



Super Friends

episodes


Justice League

episodes


Justice League Unlimited

episodes


Young Justice

episodes


Justice League Action

episodes










Animated films




Featuring Batman



Mask of the Phantasm
SubZero
Return of the Joker
Mystery of the Batwoman
The Batman vs. Dracula
Gotham Knight
Under the Red Hood
Year One
The Dark Knight Returns
DC Super Heroes Unite
Son of Batman
Assault on Arkham
Batman vs. Robin
Bad Blood
The Killing Joke
Return of the Caped Crusaders
The Lego Batman Movie
Batman and Harley Quinn
Batman vs. Two-Face
Scooby-Doo! & Batman: The Brave and the Bold
Gotham by Gaslight





With Justice League



Justice League: The New Frontier
Superman/Batman: Public Enemies
Justice League: Crisis on Two Earths
Superman/Batman: Apocalypse
Justice League: Doom
Justice League: The Flashpoint Paradox
JLA Adventures: Trapped in Time
Justice League: War
The Lego Movie
Justice League: Throne of Atlantis
Batman Unlimited: Animal Instincts
Justice League: Gods and Monsters
Batman Unlimited: Monster Mayhem
Justice League vs. Teen Titans
Batman Unlimited: Mechs vs. Mutants





With Justice League Dark



Justice League Dark








Animated shorts



Chase Me
Strange Days





Novels



Dead White
Fear Itself
Inferno
The Ultimate Evil
Enemies & Allies
Wayne of Gotham





Enemies in other media



Joker
Bane
Catwoman





Other characters in other media



Robin
Barbara Gordon





Related topics



Batman & Bill
Bruce Wayne (unproduced series)
Batkid Begins
Batman action figures

Lego Batman
Batman Total Justice


Bat phone
Bat-Manga!: The Secret History of Batman in Japan
List of Batman films cast members
List of Batman video games
List of Batman children's books
Batman music












v
t
e


Live-action television programs based on DC Comics



TV series




Former



Adventures of Superman (1952–58)
Batman (1966–68)
Shazam! (1974–77)
The Secrets of Isis (1975-77)
Wonder Woman (1975–79)
Superboy (1988–92)
Swamp Thing: The Series (1990–93)
The Flash (1990–91)
Human Target (1992)
Lois & Clark: The New Adventures of Superman (1993–97)
Smallville (2001–11)
Birds of Prey (2002–2003)
Human Target (2010–11)
Constantine (2014–15)
Powerless (2017)





Current



Arrow (since 2012)
Gotham (since 2014)
The Flash (since 2014)
iZombie (since 2015)
Supergirl (since 2015)
Legends of Tomorrow (since 2016)
Lucifer (since 2016)
Preacher (since 2016)





Upcoming



Black Lightning (2018)
Krypton (2018)
Scalped (TBA)
Titans (2018)








TV films



Wonder Woman
The New Original Wonder Woman
Justice League of America





TV specials




Unsold pilots



The Adventures of Superpup
The Adventures of Superboy
Global Frequency
Aquaman
Wonder Woman







It's a Bird...It's a Plane...It's Superman
Legends of the Superheroes





See also



Arrowverse












v
t
e


The Green Hornet



Creators



Fran Striker
George W. Trendle





Media




Radio



The Green Hornet





Television



The Green Hornet

episodes







Films



The Green Hornet (1940)
The Green Hornet Strikes Again!
The Green Hornet (2006)
The Green Hornet (2011)








Related



Kato
The Lone Ranger
Batman










 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Batman_(TV_series)&oldid=811821329"					
Categories: Batman (TV series)1966 American television series debuts1968 American television series endings1960s American science fiction television seriesAmerican Broadcasting Company network shows1960s American comedy television seriesBatman television seriesAmerican crime television seriesEnglish-language television programsSuperhero comedy television seriesTelevision series by 20th Century Fox TelevisionTelevision shows set in the United StatesAmerican action television seriesAmerican adventure television seriesHidden categories: Pages using citations with accessdate and no URLPages using deprecated image syntaxArticles that may contain original research from October 2017All articles that may contain original researchArticles needing additional references from July 2016All articles needing additional referencesArticles using Template:EmmyTVLegends title 
