Birds of Prey (TV series) - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

For the 1982 BBC serial, see Bird of Prey (TV serial).


Birds of Prey





Created by
Laeta Kalogridis


Starring
Ashley Scott
Dina Meyer
Rachel Skarsten
Shemar Moore
Ian Abercrombie
Mia Sara


Country of origin
United States


Original language(s)
English


No. of seasons
1


No. of episodes
13 (list of episodes)


Production


Executive producer(s)
Mike Tollin
Brian Robbins
Shawn Levy


Running time
approx. 42 minutes


Production company(s)
Warner Bros. Television
Tollin / Robbins Productions
Flash Film Works (Pilot)


Distributor
Warner Bros. Television Distribution


Release


Original network
The WB


Original release
October 9, 2002 (2002-10-09) – February 19, 2003 (2003-02-19)


Birds of Prey is a television drama series produced in 2002. The series was developed by Laeta Kalogridis for The WB and is loosely based on the DC Comics series of the same name. The series takes place in a Gotham City abandoned by Batman. Despite the series debut garnering ratings of 7.6 million viewers (at the time, the network's largest premiere in the 18–34 demographic),[1] the series was canceled after ratings fell sharply in subsequent weeks. Thirteen episodes were produced in total.



Contents


1 Plot outline
2 Characters

2.1 Main
2.2 Recurring


3 Episodes
4 Media releases
5 See also
6 References
7 External links



Plot outline[edit]
The series is set in New Gotham City, several years after it has been apparently abandoned by Batman. In his absence, Oracle (Barbara Gordon) and the Huntress (Helena Kyle) have taken over his war on crime. The two are joined by Dinah Redmond, a telepath (after she assists them in defeating Larry Ketterly); Alfred Pennyworth, who serves Helena as she is heir to the Wayne estate; and Detective Jesse Reese, a police officer confronted with crimes and abilities he cannot explain.
A central feature of the series is the concept of metahumans: individuals born with powers that cannot be explained. No two metahumans have the same abilities (unless hereditary), and there exists a whole subculture of metahuman society that the outside world knows nothing about.
Detective Reese reluctantly teams up with Huntress and the other Birds of Prey to defeat metahuman criminals. At first, he disapproves of Helena's vigilantism, even trying to arrest her, but eventually he realizes there is a need for the Birds of Prey to take down criminals the police cannot handle.
During the course of the show, the Birds of Prey often confront schemes masterminded by Dr. Harleen Quinzel (Harley Quinn), though they are unaware of her involvement until the final episode of the series. Quinzel's attempts to discover what Helena is hiding, and the duplicitous nature of their therapy sessions together, form a large part of the series arc, beginning in the pilot episode and being resolved in the series finale.
Characters[edit]
Main[edit]




The main cast, featured in a publicity still for the series' run. From left to right, Dinah (Skarsten), Barbara (Meyer), and Helena (Scott). Not pictured are Jesse (Moore), Alfred (Abercrombie), and Harleen (Sara).



Helena Kyle/Huntress (Ashley Scott)


The daughter of Batman and Catwoman. She is half-metahuman, with cat-like abilities inherited from her mother (also a metahuman in the Birds of Prey continuity): enhanced agility, strength, healing and a sixth sense for danger, as well as the ability to shift her eyes to a feline form. This change is usually triggered by strong emotion, but can also be used to grant Helena enhanced night vision. She was raised by her mother, without ever knowing who her father was, until the night Catwoman was murdered by an unknown assassin hired by the Joker (eventually revealed to be Clayface) in cold blood on the street, right in front of her. After this she was taken in by Barbara Gordon, who raised and trained her.


Barbara Gordon/Oracle (Dina Meyer)


Originally one of Batman's apprentices and a daughter of his trusted ally Police Commissioner James Gordon, Barbara was shot by the Joker as revenge for Batman's dismantling of his criminal operation, leaving her paralyzed and forced to give up her life as Batgirl. To compensate, she renamed herself Oracle and began using her expertise in computer hacking and weaponry to fight crime. Oracle calls upon Huntress to handle the field work she is no longer capable of doing, and maintains her superhero contacts. By day, Barbara is a teacher at New Gotham High, but, by night, she fights crime from a secret location in the New Gotham Clocktower. Despite being paraplegic, Barbara works to developing a cybernetic implant for her spine, in the hope that one day she will regain her mobility.


Dinah Redmond (née Dinah Lance) (Rachel Skarsten)


Also a metahuman, Dinah is drawn to New Gotham, and to Helena and Barbara by visions of the tragedies that befell them on the night of the Joker's revenge. She proves herself to the two and is taken in as a member of their team, with the condition that she train in the use of her metahuman abilities. In addition to her precognitive dreams, Dinah is a touch-telepath, able to read the thoughts of anyone she comes in physical contact with and later manifests the power of telekinesis. During the course of the series, Dinah discovers that her mother is actually Carolyn Lance, the Black Canary, also a metahuman and legendary superhero, who gave Dinah up for her own safety when she was a child after she did not display any metahuman potential. Unbeknownst to Carolyn, Dinah's abilities manifested while in the care of her foster parents, who reacted with fear and physical abuse towards the young Dinah. This prompted her to run away where she was found by Barbara Gordon. The discovery of Dinah's relation to the Black Canary leads Oracle to believe that she may also have inherited her mother's hypersonic ability, although it is never demonstrated.


Detective Jesse Reese (née Jesse Hawke) (Shemar Moore)


An honest police detective who encounters Huntress while investigating a rash of bizarre suicides, Jesse is simultaneously drawn to her and disapproves of her disrespect for the law. Nevertheless the two are thrown together by cases involving metahuman abilities. It is later revealed that Reese's birthname was Jesse Hawke, and his father is Al Hawke, head of a powerful crime family and sworn enemy of Carolyn Lance, Dinah's mother. When he turned 16, after nearly being arrested after a police officer found traces of blood found all over the trunk of his father's car while he was driving it, Jesse's relationship with his father became estranged. He forsook the name "Hawke," took his mother's surname, and dedicated his life to find justice for his father's victims. He pursued a career in law enforcement to atone for his family's sins. Reese and Helena ultimately bond romantically towards the end of the series.


Alfred Pennyworth (Ian Abercrombie)


Faithful butler to the Wayne family, Alfred transferred his services to Helena and Barbara in Batman's absence, and is often present at the clock tower, taking care of their day-to-day needs. He shares a close bond with Barbara, often listening to her problems or giving her advice on personal situations, whether she wants to hear it or not. He secretly remains in contact with Batman, updating him on the status of the Birds, in particular that of Helena.


Dr. Harleen Quinzel/Harley Quinn (Mia Sara)[2]


A psychiatrist Helena is ordered to see after being convicted of vandalism while chasing a thief. Harley Quinn was Joker's lover and accomplice prior to his incarceration, unbeknownst to Helena and the other Birds of Prey, and has come to seek her revenge on New Gotham for what it did to her 'Mr J'. Though she presents herself as a respectable professional, one called upon by the authorities to work with violent and dangerous felons, Quinzel is herself insane, using her contacts with the criminal world to mastermind her revenge.

Recurring[edit]

Wade Brixton (Shawn Christian)


The guidance counsellor at New Gotham High. He and Barbara meet in the pilot and subsequently begin a relationship. He is ultimately killed by Harley Quinn to punish Barbara for interfering with Quinn's plans.


Gibson Kafka (Robert Patrick Benedict)


A metahuman with perfect photographic memory. He can recall every taste, sight, sound and smell he has ever experienced (since before birth) and knows, to the second, the amount of time that has passed since he last saw someone. He is the proprietor of No Man's Land, a bar and safe house for metahumans. He first appears in the third episode, "Prey for the Hunter".


Detective McNally (Brent Sexton)


A New Gotham detective and partner of Jesse Reese. He is skeptical of all things strange and unexplainable. He first appears in the pilot.


Bruce Wayne/Batman (unknown)


The Dark Knight and father of Helena Kyle. He appears only in flashbacks of the show. At the end of the final episode, Alfred calls him on the phone, telling him that his daughter is doing well. Actor Bruce Thomas, who played Batman in the Batman OnStar commercials has been previously credited as playing the character on the show but in an interview he said this was not the case.[3].


Selina Kyle/Catwoman (unknown)


Catwoman and mother of Helena Kyle. She appears only in flashbacks of the show. Selina Kyle was once the "queen of the criminal underworld" in the city of New Gotham. She was a meta-human. In the first episode, she and Helena were walking, until a man came up and murdered Selina. In the twelfth episode, it is revealed that Clayface (hired by The Joker) was Selina's murderer.

In addition, Mark Hamill reprises his role from Batman: The Animated Series as the voice of the Joker for the brief appearances of the villain in the Birds of Prey pilot.[4] Actor/stuntman Roger Stoneburner appeared as the Joker on-camera;[5] Hamill's voice was dubbed over Stoneburner's performance.
Episodes[edit]


No.
Title
Directed by
Written by
Original air date
Production
code


1
"Pilot"
Brian Robbins
Laeta Kalogridis
October 9, 2002 (2002-10-09)
475179


The Batman legend takes an unexpected turn when the Caped Crusader vanishes from the crime-ridden Gotham City and his legacy is taken over by a trio of relentless heroines – the Birds of Prey. Barbara Gordon started out as Batman's protégé, Batgirl, but an attack by The Joker left her a paraplegic after being shot in the spine. Reinventing herself as Oracle, she takes under her wing Helena Kyle, the secret daughter of Batman and Catwoman, who quickly grows into the fierce "Huntress". Into this group comes Dinah, a teenage runaway who is drawn to the city by meta-human visions. With the help of the only honest cop in the city now called New Gotham, Detective Jesse Reese, the Birds of Prey fight their first battle against a mysterious madman who is bent on destruction.


2
"Slick"
Michael Katleman
Story by : Laeta Kalogridis & Melissa Rosenberg
Teleplay by : Laeta Kalogridis
October 16, 2002 (2002-10-16)
175451


Slick (Silas Weir Mitchell), an evil meta-human who can turn from solid to liquid, is hired by Dr. Quinzel to kill the honest cops who stand in her way. When Reese is the next intended victim, Helena comes to his aid and their mutual attraction continues to grow. Meanwhile, Barbara believes Dinah’s story that she’s just a runaway, but Helena remains suspicious.


3
"Prey for the Hunter"
Chris Long
Story by : Adam Armus & Kay Foster
Teleplay by : Edward Kitsis & Adam Horowitz
October 23, 2002 (2002-10-23)
175452


Helena and Detective Reese clash again when they both try to track down a serial killer who destroys metahumans by taking on their powers. Meanwhile, Dinah ditches school when she learns from Helena there is a metahuman-only bar, and Barbara meets Wade’s parents who think she is not normal enough for their son.


4
"Three Birds and a Baby"
Craig Zisk
David H. Goodman & Julie Hess
October 30, 2002 (2002-10-30)
175453


When Helena rescues an abandoned baby boy and brings him back to the Clocktower, Barbara and Dinah try to help, but to everyone’s surprise, the baby, "Guy", is only happy when Helena is holding him. Even more surprising is the fact that Guy wakes up from his nap as a walking, talking 5-year-old and is soon a teenager. Now in a race against time, the Birds of Prey discover that Guy is programmed to live his entire life in three days, and to kill the first person he attaches to, putting Helena in grave danger while Dr. Quinzel also races the clock to find Guy for her own nefarious plans.


5
"Sins of the Mother"
Jeff Woolnough
Story by : Melissa Rosenberg & Hans Tobeason
Teleplay by : Melissa Rosenberg
November 6, 2002 (2002-11-06)
175454


Dinah's mother, Carolyn (Lori Loughlin), comes to town to find her daughter, but the past comes back to haunt both women when the head of a crime family that Carolyn took down in her years as the Black Canary comes after them. Dinah must fight to save the mother she's never really known before she loses the chance completely. Helena wonders about her own mother's past, and about the secrets that the Canary could reveal to her, while Barbara tries to bring all the women together to cooperate before the past destroys them all.


6
"Primal Scream"
Jim Charleston
Story by : Adam Armus & Kay Foster
Teleplay by : Edward Kitsis & Adam Horowitz
November 13, 2002 (2002-11-13)
175455


At the request of Reese, Helena goes undercover to help bring down a gang of thieves terrorizing New Gotham and quickly discovers that the gang is part of a larger infrastructure. Helena goes after the big boss until her cover is blown, putting her in grave danger. Meanwhile, Barbara has to deal with her fear of intimacy when her relationship with Wade takes a serious turn.


7
"Split"
James Marshall
Story by : Adam Armus & Kay Foster
Teleplay by : Edward Kitsis & Adam Horowitz
November 20, 2002 (2002-11-20)
175456


Already frustrated with men thanks to her relationship with Det. Reese, Helena is none too pleased when a metahuman calling himself Darkstrike (Kristoffer Polaha) visits New Gotham to team up with her and Barbara. However, Helena warms to the enigmatic stranger when he explains his history with the Crawler (Brian Thompson) – a nefarious criminal with the nasty habit of murdering his abductees. When the fiend kidnaps an innocent teen, the crime fighters must race against the clock to ensure that the latest victim does not meet the fate of her predecessors.


8
"Lady Shiva"
John Kretchmer
Story by : Adam Armus & Kay Foster
Teleplay by : Edward Kitsis & Adam Horowitz
November 27, 2002 (2002-11-27)
175457


Helena is thrilled when her best friend from high school, Sandra (Sung-Hi Lee), returns to New Gotham, but the Birds are troubled by a series of murders with the unmistakable mark of Batgirl’s nemesis, Lady Shiva. Determined to fight Lady Shiva as an equal, Barbara dusts off her Batgirl costume and experiments with technology that allows her to leave the wheelchair. Meanwhile, Dinah tries to use her mind-reading powers to get a boy at her school to notice her to ask her out for the school's spring dance.


9
"Nature of the Beast"
Shawn Levy
Melissa Rosenberg
December 18, 2002 (2002-12-18)
175458


When a hit is put on the life of legendary mob boss, Al Hawk (Mitch Pileggi), the only person he trusts to protect him is his son, Det. Reese. Reese turns to Helena for help, but when she learns that Reese's father is the same man who killed Dinah's mother, Black Canary, her loyalties are tested.


10
"Gladiatrix"
David Carson
David H. Goodman
January 8, 2003 (2003-01-08)
175459


When young metahuman women are abducted in New Gotham, Helena’s investigation leads her to uncover a secret club where the captive women are drugged and forced to fight each other in an arena. When Helena is also abducted, it is up to Dinah to rescue her with Reese's help.


11
"Reunion"
Chris Long
Edward Kitsis & Adam Horowitz
January 8, 2003 (2003-01-08)
175460


When Helena's former classmates descend upon New Gotham for their five-year high school reunion, two of the alums are brutally murdered. While Helena tries to find the killer, she fears that Reese's investigation will lead him to learn too much about her true identity.


12
"Feat of Clay"
Joe Napolitano
Adam Armus & Kay Foster
February 19, 2003 (2003-02-19)
175461


After a robber, Chris Cassius (Ian Reed Kesler), breaks into a chemical factory and drinks a mixture that gives him the power to turn people to stone, Barbara cancels her vacation with her boyfriend, Wade. Unwilling to allow Barbara to continue neglecting her personal life, Alfred the Butler brings Wade to the clock tower and exposes her secret. Meanwhile, Helena goes to Arkham Asylum and interrogates her father's old enemy Clayface, who possesses the same abilities as Chris, and learns a shocking fact about her past. She must race to prevent Chris from killing New Gotham's most powerful people at a charity fashion show.


13
"Devil's Eyes"
Robert J. Wilson
Adam Armus & Melissa Rosenberg
February 19, 2003 (2003-02-19)
175462


Having discovered that Helena is Huntress, Harley Quinn uses a machine that gives her metahuman hypnotic powers. She then hypnotizes Helena and persuades her to knock Barbara unconscious and steal an access disk. Barbara recovers and uses her subneural device to enable her to stand and fight Helena, eventually neutralizing the trance. But Harley uses the disk to gain complete control of the clock tower and, after killing Wade, she broadcasts the hypnotic signal to every television set in New Gotham. Working together with Alfred, Dinah, and Reese, Helena must infiltrate the clock tower and battle Harley and her cohorts before they gain control of the entire city. It is hinted that Bruce Wayne/Batman is probably still alive, as just before the end credits, Alfred speaks to "Master Bruce" on the phone at Wayne Manor, talking about his daughter Helena and that he would be proud of her.


Media releases[edit]
Birds of Prey was released on Region 1 DVD on July 15, 2008. The four-disc collection includes the thirteen episodes that were broadcast plus the unaired pilot,[6] which features Sherilyn Fenn as Harley Quinn, and all three seasons of the Flash-animated series Gotham Girls. The episodes are presented in letterboxed widescreen format.[6] Some music differs from original televised version including the theme song, which in the original airing was "Revolution" by Aimee Allen, as well as the fight music "All the Things She Said" by t.A.T.u. in the final episode which was replaced with "Beautiful Freak" by Dirty Children.
Birds of Prey female cast, Ashley Scott, Dina Meyer, Rachel Skarsten were reunited again on April 25, 2015 at Hollywood Show at the Westin Los Angeles Airport Hotel.[7]
See also[edit]

Smallville
Aquaman (TV pilot)
Justice League of America
The Flash
Gotham

References[edit]



^ Mon (November 18, 2002). "'Birds of Prey' wings clipped by WB". Comic Book Resources. Retrieved October 4, 2011. 
^ Sherilyn Fenn portrayed Harley Quinn in the original Unaired Pilot.
^ "Episode 6- Bruce Thomas". The BatPodcast. Retrieved October 9, 2014. 
^ "Old Headlines". March 31, 2002. Retrieved March 13, 2016. 
^ Flint, Hanna (October 27, 2015). "Cesar Romero to Jared Leto: Take a look at the onscreen evolution of the Joker". Metro. DMG Media. Retrieved March 14, 2016. 
^ a b "Birds of Prey – Studio Updates Us About the DVD Set's Aspect Ratio & Unaired Pilot". TVShowsOnDVD.com. April 23, 2008. Retrieved May 5, 2010. 
^ Scott, Ashley (March 15, 2005). "My dear friends, good news to all #BirdsofPrey fans. The Hollywood Show for the 1st time is pleased to announce for their first ever appearance the cast of Birds Of Prey: Rachel Skarsten Dina Meyer & Ashley Scott. Only one day, April 25th, 11-5 PM. The Westin Los Angeles Airport Hotel. - See you there, Ashley". Facebook. Retrieved April 14, 2015. 



External links[edit]

Official DVD website
Birds of Prey on IMDb
Birds of Prey at TV.com







v
t
e


Birds of Prey






Creators: Chuck Dixon
Jordan B. Gorfinkel
Gail Simone





Titles



Batgirl and the Birds of Prey





Main characters



Barbara Gordon
Black Canary
Huntress (Helena Bertinelli)





Notable members



Big Barda
Black Alice
Catwoman
Gypsy
Hawk and Dove
Hawkgirl (Kendra Saunders)
Jade Canary
Judomaster (Sonia Sato)
Katana
Lady Blackhawk
Manhunter (Kate Spencer)
Misfit
Poison Ivy
Power Girl
Strix
Vixen





Supporting characters



Batman
Blue Beetle (Ted Kord)
Creote
Kurt Lance
Nightwing
Power Girl
Savant
Sin
Wildcat





Adversaries



The Calculator
Cheshire
Lady Spellbinder
Pistolera
Ra's al Ghul
The Penguin
Secret Six
The Society
Spy Smasher
Twelve Brothers in Silk and White Canary





In other media



TV series












v
t
e


Batman franchise media



Live-action television



Batman

episodes


Legends of the Superheroes
OnStar commercials
Birds of Prey
Return to the Batcave: The Misadventures of Adam and Burt
Gotham

episodes

season 3
4


characters







Live-action
serials and films



Batman (1943)
Batman and Robin
Batman (1966)




1989–97 film series



Batman (1989)
Batman Returns
Batman Forever
Batman & Robin





The Dark Knight Trilogy



Batman Begins
The Dark Knight
The Dark Knight Rises





DC Extended Universe



Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice
Justice League








Animated television




Featuring Batman



The Adventures of Batman
The Batman/Superman Hour
The Batman/Tarzan Adventure Hour
The New Adventures of Batman
Batman: The Animated Series

episodes


The New Batman Adventures

episodes


Batman Beyond

episodes


The Batman

episodes


Batman: The Brave and the Bold

episodes


Beware the Batman

episodes







With other heroes



Super Friends

episodes


Justice League

episodes


Justice League Unlimited

episodes


Young Justice

episodes


Justice League Action

episodes










Animated films




Featuring Batman



Mask of the Phantasm
SubZero
Return of the Joker
Mystery of the Batwoman
The Batman vs. Dracula
Gotham Knight
Under the Red Hood
Year One
The Dark Knight Returns
DC Super Heroes Unite
Son of Batman
Assault on Arkham
Batman vs. Robin
Bad Blood
The Killing Joke
Return of the Caped Crusaders
The Lego Batman Movie
Batman and Harley Quinn
Batman vs. Two-Face
Scooby-Doo! & Batman: The Brave and the Bold
Gotham by Gaslight





With Justice League



Justice League: The New Frontier
Superman/Batman: Public Enemies
Justice League: Crisis on Two Earths
Superman/Batman: Apocalypse
Justice League: Doom
Justice League: The Flashpoint Paradox
JLA Adventures: Trapped in Time
Justice League: War
The Lego Movie
Justice League: Throne of Atlantis
Batman Unlimited: Animal Instincts
Justice League: Gods and Monsters
Batman Unlimited: Monster Mayhem
Justice League vs. Teen Titans
Batman Unlimited: Mechs vs. Mutants





With Justice League Dark



Justice League Dark








Animated shorts



Chase Me
Strange Days





Novels



Dead White
Fear Itself
Inferno
The Ultimate Evil
Enemies & Allies
Wayne of Gotham





Enemies in other media



Joker
Bane
Catwoman





Other characters in other media



Robin
Barbara Gordon





Related topics



Batman & Bill
Bruce Wayne (unproduced series)
Batkid Begins
Batman action figures

Lego Batman
Batman Total Justice


Bat phone
Bat-Manga!: The Secret History of Batman in Japan
List of Batman films cast members
List of Batman video games
List of Batman children's books
Batman music












v
t
e


Black Canary






Robert Kanigher
Carmine Infantino





Supporting characters



Barbara Gordon
Batman
Green Arrow
Hal Jordan
Huntress (Helena Bertinelli)
Kurt/Larry Lance
Sin
Speedy
Wildcat





Enemies



Hannibal Bates
Cheshire
Count Vertigo
Cupid
Lady Shiva
Merlyn
Tigress
Twelve Brothers in Silk and White Canary
Wizard





Publications



Flash Comics
Action Comics
World's Finest Comics
Black Canary
Birds of Prey
Green Arrow and Black Canary
Batgirl and the Birds of Prey





In other media



Legends of the Superheroes
Birds of Prey
Justice League Unlimited
Smallville
Batman: The Brave and the Bold
DC Showcase: Green Arrow
Young Justice
Arrow
The Flash
Legends of Tomorrow












v
t
e


Live-action television programs based on DC Comics



TV series




Former



Adventures of Superman (1952–58)
Batman (1966–68)
Shazam! (1974–77)
The Secrets of Isis (1975-77)
Wonder Woman (1975–79)
Superboy (1988–92)
Swamp Thing: The Series (1990–93)
The Flash (1990–91)
Human Target (1992)
Lois & Clark: The New Adventures of Superman (1993–97)
Smallville (2001–11)
Birds of Prey (2002–2003)
Human Target (2010–11)
Constantine (2014–15)
Powerless (2017)





Current



Arrow (since 2012)
Gotham (since 2014)
The Flash (since 2014)
iZombie (since 2015)
Supergirl (since 2015)
Legends of Tomorrow (since 2016)
Lucifer (since 2016)
Preacher (since 2016)





Upcoming



Black Lightning (2018)
Krypton (2018)
Scalped (TBA)
Titans (2018)








TV films



Wonder Woman
The New Original Wonder Woman
Justice League of America





TV specials




Unsold pilots



The Adventures of Superpup
The Adventures of Superboy
Global Frequency
Aquaman
Wonder Woman







It's a Bird...It's a Plane...It's Superman
Legends of the Superheroes





See also



Arrowverse










 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Birds_of_Prey_(TV_series)&oldid=811718309"					
Categories: 2002 American television series debuts2003 American television series endingsAmerican action television series2000s American drama television series2000s American science fiction television seriesBatman television seriesEnglish-language television programsSuperhero television programsBlack Canary in other mediaTelevision programs based on DC ComicsTelevision shows set in the United StatesTelevision series by Warner Bros. TelevisionThe WB showsHidden categories: Use mdy dates from March 2015 
