Bonjour Television - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search








This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages)







This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (September 2014) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)









This article is an orphan, as no other articles link to it. Please introduce links to this page from related articles; try the Find link tool for suggestions. (September 2014)









The topic of this article may not meet Wikipedia's general notability guideline. Please help to establish notability by citing reliable secondary sources that are independent of the topic and provide significant coverage of it beyond its mere trivial mention. If notability cannot be established, the article is likely to be merged, redirected, or deleted.
Find sources: "Bonjour Television" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (September 2014) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)





(Learn how and when to remove this template message)



Bonjour Television Network is an American TV broadcasting company. All of its programmes are aired in the French language.[1]



Contents


1 History
2 Programming
3 References
4 External links



History[edit]
Bonjour Television Network was established in 2013 in Miami, Florida, by Victor J. Romero with the intent of offering programming for French-speaking people in the United States.
The network announced the launch of their first four channels on May 18, 2014:[2] Bonjour Television, Xplore Channel, Bonjour Music and Men's Up.
On September 17, 2014 Bonjour announced the launch of Fight Channel World.[3]
Programming[edit]
Bonjour Television offers programmes in the following categories:

Films
Drama
News
Documentaries (Xplore channel)
Reality
Music (Bonjour Music 24/7 channel).

References[edit]



^ "Bonjour Television Network". Bonjourtelevisionnetwork.com. Retrieved 30 November 2014. 
^ "Lancement réussi de Bonjour Télévision Network Group". Hebdofloride.com. Archived from the original on 4 November 2014. Retrieved 30 November 2014. 
^ "(Press Release) BONJOUR TELEVISION NETWORK Announced Its Launch In The United States Of America - MIAMI, Sept. 17, 2014 /PRNewswire-iReach/". Ireachcontent.com. 2014-09-17. Retrieved 2015-05-06. 



External links[edit]

Official website





 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Bonjour_Television&oldid=791919764"					
Categories: Television stations in the United StatesAmerican television networksFrench television-related listsFrench-language television stationsFrench-language television networksForeign-language television stations in the United StatesHidden categories: Articles needing additional references from September 2014All articles needing additional referencesOrphaned articles from September 2014All orphaned articlesArticles with topics of unclear notability from September 2014All articles with topics of unclear notability 
