Boston University College of Fine Arts - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search







This article contains content that is written like an advertisement. Please help improve it by removing promotional content and inappropriate external links, and by adding encyclopedic content written from a neutral point of view. (May 2014) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)



The Boston University College of Fine Arts (CFA) at Boston University consists of the School of Music, the School of Theatre, and the School of Visual Arts. Each school offers degrees in the performing and visual arts at the undergraduate and graduate level. Among the College of Fine Arts faculty are artists, scholars, and performers of national and international reputation.[1] Since the College of Fine Arts is integrated into Boston University, students at CFA may choose courses in the other undergraduate colleges at Boston University. CFA students can also apply for the Boston University Collaborative Degree Program (BUCOP), where students simultaneously earn undergraduate degrees at CFA and in one of 14 undergraduate colleges of the university. The college offers a study abroad program in London, England, and Dresden, Germany. Students can spend a semester at the Royal College of Music, the London Academy of Music and Dramatic Art, or at the Hochschule für Musik "Carl Maria von Weber".[2]
Admission to the College of Fine Arts requires a live or pre-recorded audition for music and theatrical performance majors and a submission of a portfolio for visual arts and technical theatre majors.



Contents


1 School of Music
2 School of Visual Arts
3 School of Theatre
4 Notable alumni

4.1 Visual Arts
4.2 Music
4.3 Performing Arts


5 References
6 External links



School of Music[edit]
The Boston University School of Music was founded in 1872, which makes it the oldest degree-granting music program in the United States.[3] The School of Music offers the Bachelor of Music (BM), the Master of Music (MM), and the Doctorate of Musical Arts (DMA). All students have the option of concentrating in fields such as performance, music theory and composition, musicology, music education, historical performance, and conducting.[4] The School of Music offers special degrees such as the Performance Diploma and the Artist Diploma. The Performance Diploma is a non-degree program for students who want a continued education in music performance at the post-Masters level. The Artist Diploma is restricted only for unusually gifted students.
The School of Music has about 150 faculty members (professors, assistant professors, adjunct professors, and teaching associates).[5] The large number of professors allows the students to get individual studio instruction. Some notable music professors include: Edwin Barker (double bass), Ann Howard Jones (conducting), George Neikrug (cello), Tim Genis (percussion), Andre de Quadros (music education), Sharon Daniels (voice), Jerrold Pope (voice), Kenneth Radnofsky (saxophone) and Penelope Bitzas (voice).
There is a wide variety of performance opportunities at the School of Music. Groups such as the Boston University Symphony Orchestra, Symphonic Chorus, Wind/Brass ensemble, and the Baroque Orchestra allow students from a wide range of concentrations to apply their skills in an ensemble setting.
The Boston University School of Music has a summer music festival for high school students known as the Boston University Tanglewood Institute (BUTI). The Boston University Tanglewood Institute is recognized internationally as an outstanding educational opportunity for young artists and is the only program of its kind associated with one of the great symphony orchestras of the world.[6] Here, under the guidance of Boston Symphony Orchestra members, young people devote themselves each summer to an intensive and challenging training session.
Boston University's School of Music is affiliated with several ensembles and organizations that provide an extension of its core programs. Among these are the contemporary music ensemble-in-residence Alea III, the Muir String Quartet, and Boston Youth Symphony Orchestras.[7]
The Boston University School of Music is a pioneer in the field of online music education recognizing that a quality education should be made available to those who prefer or need to learn online,[8] and by the end of 2007, more than 600 online graduate students were expected to be studying for a Master of Music (MM) or Doctor of Musical Arts (DMA) degree through this College, the first institution in the US to offer a doctoral degree in music entirely online.[9]
School of Visual Arts[edit]
Founded in 1954, the Boston University School of Visual Arts prepares students for professional careers in the art world as painters, graphic designers, sculptors, and art educators. The School of Visual Arts offers the Bachelor of Fine Arts (BFA) and the Master of Fine Arts (MFA) in areas such as graphic design, art education, sculpture, and painting.[10]
Visits from distinguished artists and lecturers as well as a widely varied program of exhibitions broaden and enhance each student’s educational experience.[10] Four on-campus galleries—the BU Art Gallery, the Commonwealth Gallery, the 808 Gallery, and the Sherman Gallery—provide exhibition opportunities for graduate students and alumni.
Facilities available to students include a computer lab, a new media room, a welding shop, a wood shop, and painting, drawing, printmaking, and photography studios.
School of Theatre[edit]




The Boston University Theatre on Huntington Avenue


The School of Theatre at Boston University offers a high-level of instruction in the theatre arts. The school offers the Bachelor of Fine Arts (BFA) and the Master of Fine Arts (MFA), as well as Artisan Certificates for technical theatre students. Students can major in acting, theatre arts, theatrical design and production, stage management, theatre education, and directing.
The school has strong relationships with other theatre organizations in the Boston area, most notably the Huntington Theatre Company, the professional company in residence. The Huntington's relationship with the university provides educational enhancement and craft development opportunities and makes internships available to the school's students.[11]
The School's main operating facility is the Boston University Theatre, located across from Symphony Hall on Huntington Avenue (Avenue of the Arts) in Boston. Built in 1923, the facility houses both the 800+ seat mainstage theatre and the black-box theatre known as the Stewart F. Lane and Bonnie Comley Studio 210. In addition, it is home to The Huntington Theatre offices, the University's Design and Production Center offices and classrooms, and scenery, costume and lighting shops shared by both organizations.[12]
Notable alumni[edit]
The College of Fine Arts has produced many students who have become notable in their fields:[13]
Visual Arts[edit]

Grant Drumheller (painter)
Brice Marden (painter)
Christina McPhee (New Media artist)
Brian McLean (visual effects artist)

Music[edit]

Ted Atkatz (Chicago Symphony Orchestra Principal Percussionist)
Velvet Brown (tuba soloist, music educator)
Janet Chvatal (classical soprano and award-winning musical producer)
Sylvia Constantinidis (Venezuelan-American classical pianist, composer, conductor, writer, music educator)
Marcus Haddock (opera singer)[14]
Eugene Izotov (Chicago Symphony Orchestra Principal Oboist)
Konstantinos Papadakis (concert pianist)
Scott Perkins (composer)
Anthony Tommasini (New York Times music critic)
Wen-Pin Hope Lee (music educator and composer)

Performing Arts[edit]

Jason Alexander (Tony Award-winning actor; cast member of Seinfeld)
Michael Chiklis (Emmy Award-winning actor, The Shield)
Geena Davis (Oscar and Golden Globe-winning actress)
Emily Deschanel (actress, Bones)
Dan Fogler (Tony Award-winning actor; The 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee)
Ginnifer Goodwin (actress, Big Love)
Israel Hicks (1943–2010), stage director who presented August Wilson's entire 10-play Pittsburgh Cycle.[15]
Yunjin Kim (actress, Lost)
Erica Leerhsen (actress)
Jerry Levine (actor/director, Teen Wolf)
Craig Lucas (Tony Award- and Pulitzer Prize-nominated playwright and actor)
Yan Luo, (actress and screenwriter)
Julianne Moore (Oscar-winning actress)
Olympia Dukakis (Oscar-winning actress)
Michael Murray, co-founder and Artistic Director of the Charles Playhouse (Boston), Artistic Director of the Cincinnati Playhouse in the Park, Chair of Theatre Arts Department, Brandeis University
Rosie O'Donnell (actress and talk show host)
Jenn Proske (actress)
Ola Rotimi (Award-winning playwright and theatre director)
Lee Sheldon (videogame designer, author, TV writer/producer)
Nina Tassler (President of CBS Entertainment)
Marisa Tomei (Academy Award-winning actress)
Krista Vernoff (Emmy-nominated writer)
Michaela Watkins (SNL actress)
Cynthia Watros (actress, Lost)
Alfre Woodard (Emmy and Golden Globe-winning actress)
Alex Wyse (Broadway actor)

References[edit]



^ "College of Fine Arts » Academics | Boston University". Bu.edu. Retrieved 2012-11-24. 
^ "Study Abroad » Boston University". Bu.edu. Retrieved 2012-11-24. 
^ [1] Archived July 4, 2006, at the Wayback Machine.
^ [2] Archived July 5, 2006, at the Wayback Machine.
^ "School of Music » Academics | Boston University". Bu.edu. Retrieved 2012-11-24. 
^ [3] Archived May 13, 2006, at the Wayback Machine.
^ [4] Archived October 23, 2012, at the Wayback Machine.
^ online music education
^ "RIME Online : September 2007 : Five Challenges and Solutions in Online Music Teacher Education". Stthomas.edu. Retrieved 2012-11-24. 
^ a b [5] Archived July 4, 2006, at the Wayback Machine.
^ "Boston University | Huntington Theatre Company". Huntingtontheatre.org. 2012-03-30. Archived from the original on 2012-11-09. Retrieved 2012-11-24. 
^ "Venues » College of Fine Arts | Boston University". Bu.edu. Archived from the original on 2012-11-26. Retrieved 2012-11-24. 
^ "Notable Alumni » College of Fine Arts | Boston University". Bu.edu. Retrieved 2012-11-24. 
^ Boston University College of Fine Arts. Notable Alumni. Retrieved 11 October 2017.
^ Weber, Bruce. "Israel Hicks, Director of August Wilson’s Cycle, Dies at 66", The New York Times, July 7, 2010. Accessed July 8, 2010.



External links[edit]

Official website







v
t
e


Boston University



Schools



College of Arts and Sciences
College of Communication
College of Engineering
College of Fine Arts
College of Health and Rehabilitation Sciences
Goldman School of Dental Medicine
Metropolitan College
Pardee School of Global Studies
Questrom School of Business
School of Education
School of Law
School of Medicine
School of Public Health
School of Social Work
School of Theology
University Professors Program





Research



Center for Millennial Studies
Judson B. Coit Observatory
Metcalf Science Center
Photonics Center





Athletics



Boston University Terriers
Men's ice hockey
Women's ice hockey
Men's basketball
Women's basketball
Agganis Arena
Beanpot
Case Gym
FitRec
Green Line Rivalry
Holy Cross rivalry
Nickerson Field
Rhett the Boston Terrier
Walter Brown Arena
Football (1884-1997)





Housing



Boston University Housing System
10 Buick Street
575 Commonwealth Avenue
Myles Standish Hall
Shelton Hall
The Towers
Warren Towers





Campus Media



Arion
BUTV10
Clarion
The Daily Free Press
The International Relations Review
News from the Republic of Letters
Pusteblume
The Quad
WTBU





Miscellaneous



Boston University Academy
Boston Medical Center
Boston Playwrights' Theatre
BU Medical Campus
BU Police
BU Castle
George Sherman Union
Morse Auditorium
Boston University Libraries

Mugar Memorial Library


WBUR






Coordinates: 42°21′04″N 71°06′49″W﻿ / ﻿42.3512°N 71.1135°W﻿ / 42.3512; -71.1135




 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Boston_University_College_of_Fine_Arts&oldid=804846456"					
Categories: Boston UniversityDrama schools in the United StatesMusic schools in MassachusettsEducational institutions established in 1872Massachusetts film and television1872 establishments in MassachusettsBoston University College of Fine Arts alumniTheatre in MassachusettsHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback linksArticles with a promotional tone from May 2014All articles with a promotional toneCoordinates on Wikidata 
