Brillstein Entertainment Partners - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search







This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (October 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)




Brillstein Entertainment Partners

Industry
Talent and Literary Agencies


Founded
Los Angeles, California, US (1991)


Founders
Bernie Brillstein, Brad Grey


Headquarters
Beverly Hills, California, US


Members
200 clients


Website
bepmedia.com


Brillstein Entertainment Partners (formerly known as Brillstein-Grey Entertainment and Brillstein-Grey Communications) is a talent management firm and television production company formed by the 1991 addition of Brad Grey to The Brillstein Company, founded by Bernie Brillstein in 1969.



Contents


1 The Brillstein Company

1.1 Film productions


2 Brillstein-Grey Entertainment

2.1 Film productions
2.2 Television productions


3 Client list
4 Miscellaneous
5 References
6 External links



The Brillstein Company[edit]
Bernie Brillstein formed The Brillstein Company in 1969, where he continued to manage stars and develop television programming, a career he began in the fabled mailroom of the William Morris Agency. He produced such popular television hits as Hee Haw, The Muppet Show,[1] and Saturday Night Live.[2]
Brillstein managed Saturday Night Live cast members Gilda Radner, John Belushi, and Lorne Michaels, as well as Jim Henson (of Muppets fame) and Paul Fusco (voice and operator of ALF). Productions for television included Alf: The Animated Series and Normal Life.
The company became Brillstein Entertainment Partners when Brad Grey left the company to become the head of Paramount Pictures. It is now headed by Jonathan Liebman, Marc Gurvitz, and Cynthia Pett.
Film productions[edit]





The Blues Brothers
Dragnet




Ghostbusters
Ghostbusters II






Brillstein-Grey Entertainment[edit]
In 1984, Brillstein met Brad Grey at a television convention in San Francisco, California. In 1986,[3] the two formed a production company, Brillstein-Grey Entertainment, which packaged programming and managed talent.
Film productions[edit]





Bulletproof
The Cable Guy
Happy Gilmore (Adam Sandler)




The Replacement Killers
Scary Movie 2
Screwed




The Wedding Singer
What Planet Are You From?





Television productions[edit]





For American Broadcasting Company (ABC)

Politically Incorrect with Bill Maher


For Home Box Office (HBO)

The Larry Sanders Show (Garry Shandling, Rip Torn, Jeffrey Tambor)
The Sopranos (James Gandolfini, Edie Falco, Lorraine Bracco)
Mr. Show






For National Broadcasting Company (NBC)

NewsRadio (Phil Hartman, Jon Lovitz)
Just Shoot Me (David Spade)


For Showtime

It's Garry Shandling's Show (Garry Shandling)






For WB Television Network (WB)

The Steve Harvey Show (Steve Harvey)


For CBS

Good Sports (Ryan O'Neal, Farrah Fawcett)







Client list[edit]
Brillstein Entertainment Partners represents stars such as:


Amy Adams
Courteney Cox[4]
Kaley Cuoco[5]
The Dan Band[6]
Vin Diesel
Jim Gaffigan[7]
Brendan Fraser
Zach Galifianakis
Sarah Michelle Gellar
Charlie Hunnam
Heather Locklear
Rob Lowe
Norm Macdonald
Bill Maher
Rami Malek
James Maslow
Jonathan Rhys Meyers
Timothy Olyphant[8]
Anna Paquin
Brad Pitt
Adam Sandler
Chloë Sevigny
Jason Sudeikis
Aaron Taylor-Johnson
Cameron Dallas


Miscellaneous[edit]
The new management company Eric Murphy joins in HBO's Entourage is based on Brillstein Entertainment, as well as the character Murray Berenson based on the company's founder Bernie Brillstein.
Brillstein sold his shares in the company to Grey, his one time protégé, in 1996, giving Grey full rein over operations; the company's television unit was subsequently rechristened Brad Grey Television. Grey sold his interest in the company in 2005[2] due to his succeeding Sherry Lansing as Chief Executive Officer of Paramount Pictures, which created a conflict of interest.
Several shows by the company now have ancillary rights owned by NBC Universal Television. Some of these shows are owned by Sony Pictures Television in North America.
References[edit]



^ Rose, Frank (1995). The Agency: William Morris and the Hidden History of Show Business. New York: Harper. pp. 261, 415. 
^ a b "Brillstein-Grey Entertainment". Hoover's. Retrieved 2007-11-01. 
^ "Bernie Brillstein Biography" (PDF). Wma.com. Retrieved 2007-11-01. 
^ Wagmeister, Elizabeth (January 12, 2016). "Courteney Cox Eyeing TV Return with Fox Comedy". Variety. Retrieved April 28, 2017. 
^ Andreeva, Nellie (August 4, 2014). "'Big Bang Theory' Stars Jim Parsons, Johnny Galecki & Kaley Cuoco Close Big New Deals". Deadline. Retrieved April 28, 2017. 
^ "The Dan Band". Contacts. Retrieved 4 May 2015. 
^ McNary, Dave (February 6, 2017). "Jim Gaffigan to Star in Movie Comedy 'You Can Choose Your Family'". Variety. Retrieved April 28, 2017. 
^ McNary, Dave (February 3, 2017). "Timothy Olyphant Joins Thomas Mann in Dark Comedy 'Beef'". Variety. Retrieved April 28, 2017. 



External links[edit]

Official website
Variety.com





 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Brillstein_Entertainment_Partners&oldid=806684388"					
Categories: Film production companies of the United StatesTelevision production companies of the United StatesHidden categories: Articles needing additional references from October 2017All articles needing additional references 
