Busboy Productions - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search


Busboy Productions





Type

Production company


Founded
Mid-1990s


Headquarters
New York, New York, United States


Owner
Jon Stewart


Busboy Productions is a production company that was launched by Jon Stewart in the mid-1990s when he was known for hosting The Jon Stewart Show on MTV.
In addition to Stewart, executive Chris McShane is in charge of development and production.[1]



Contents


1 Name
2 History
3 Projects

3.1 The Colbert Report
3.2 Important Things with Demetri Martin
3.3 The Naturalized
3.4 The Rally to Restore Sanity and/or Fear
3.5 Rumble 2012
3.6 Sportsfan
3.7 Three Strikes
3.8 Rosewater
3.9 The Nightly Show with Larry Wilmore


4 References



Name[edit]
The name of the company is a reference to how Stewart worked as a busboy in a Mexican restaurant as a young man. The company's vanity card features the sound of a glass being knocked over followed by Jon Stewart whispering "Oops. Sorry."
History[edit]
Shortly after The Jon Stewart Show was canceled, Stewart signed a production deal with Miramax to star in at least two films per year and develop his own projects. However, Stewart starred in only three films for Miramax and no projects were ever produced.
After Stewart's success as host and producer of The Daily Show, Busboy Productions was revived. In 2002, Stewart approached NBC to create a show in which Stephen Colbert would star. That show never got off the ground.[2]
In 2005, Busboy Productions reached an agreement with Comedy Central to finance the production company. Comedy Central has a first-look agreement of any project. If Comedy Central passes on a project, Busboy is free to shop them to other networks.[1][3]
Projects[edit]
The Colbert Report[edit]
Main article: The Colbert Report
Busboy's first television production was The Colbert Report, produced by Stewart, Stephen Colbert, and Ben Karlin, and subject to a distribution agreement between Busboy Productions and Comedy Central, which made certain that "the Report" would run through 2007. The Colbert Report was produced in association with Stephen Colbert's Spartina Productions.
Jon Stewart joked in an interview with E!, when asked if he would appear on the Report, that he "doesn't do start-ups" and would wait until the show set into a deeper footing. He has since made several appearances.
Colbert's response was that "His shadow is dark enough. I don't want to ask the source of darkness for help. I'm not interested in that same liberal claptrap. That meow, meow, meow, ironic detachment. We're going to deal with truth on my show."[4]
While The Colbert Report is Busboy Production's first successful television show, the notice "Copyright (c) 2004 by Busboy Productions, Inc. All Rights Reserved" appeared at the bottom of the "Shadow Government" poster included in The Daily Show's America (The Book).
Important Things with Demetri Martin[edit]
Main article: Important Things with Demetri Martin
Busboy Productions also launched Important Things with Demetri Martin, a comedy show starring Demetri Martin, in which he "alternates between taped sketches and stand-up performances in front of a studio audience". Jon Stewart took an active role in "shepherding" the pilot. Reuters reports:

Lauren Corrao, executive vp original programming and development at Comedy Central, noted that Martin's style of humor is nothing like the sketch shows the network has previously tried. The pilot puts Martin's sly, thoughtful manner to use by having all the segments riff on "the important things" about ... chairs. Future episodes will give the same treatment to everything from apples to "what happens after we die," she said.[5]

The Naturalized[edit]
The Naturalized is a documentary film about immigrants from different countries seeking citizenship. It aired on History December 14, 2010.[citation needed]
The Rally to Restore Sanity and/or Fear[edit]
Main article: Rally to Restore Sanity and/or Fear
Rumble 2012[edit]
Official title: "O'Reilly v Stewart 2012: The Rumble in the Air-Conditioned Auditorium."
On October 6, 2012, Stewart and Bill O'Reilly met at the Lisner Auditorium at George Washington University for a debate that was not broadcast on television but live-streamed. The promotion tagline was "It's why Al Gore invented the Internet."[6] The show was marked by technical difficulties—many people were unable to access the live-stream—but was touted for being substantive.[7][8] The event was a joint venture between Busboy and O'Reilly's Straight Talk.[9] Web services were provided by Nox Solutions.
Sportsfan[edit]
Sportsfan is a documentary film which follows a group of Minnesota Vikings fans throughout the football season. It aired on SpikeTV in 2006.
Three Strikes[edit]
Main article: Three Strikes (TV series)
Three Strikes was the first scripted comedy pilot under Comedy Central's first look deal with Busboy.[10] While a pilot episode was filmed, the series was not picked up by Comedy Central.
The project was a character-based comedy set in the world of minor league baseball. It was written by Alex Gregory and Peter Huyck, whose credits include King of the Hill, Frasier, The Larry Sanders Show and the Late Show with David Letterman.
Rosewater[edit]
Main article: Rosewater (film)
Rosewater is an American drama film written and directed by Stewart, based on the memoir Then They Came for Me by Maziar Bahari and Aimee Molloy.
The Nightly Show with Larry Wilmore[edit]
Main article: The Nightly Show with Larry Wilmore
On May 9, 2014 it was announced that Larry Wilmore from The Daily Show was selected to host a late-night talk show on Comedy Central, to replace The Colbert Report following Stephen Colbert's departure from the network to host Late Show with Stephen Colbert on CBS.[11][12] The show is titled The Nightly Show with Larry Wilmore and is produced by Busboy Productions.[13] It premiered on January 19, 2015, and ran Mondays through Thursdays at 11:30 PM (EST) following The Daily Show until its cancellation on August 18, 2016.
References[edit]


^ a b Comedy Inks Deal With Stewart's Busboy Ad Week (February 15, 2005) retrieved on August 10, 2006
^ Jon Stewart: TV Mogul Archived February 16, 2005, at the Wayback Machine. E! online (February 15, 2005) retrieved on August 10, 2006
^ Jon Stewart's production co. may develop shows for other networks Archived March 28, 2007, at the Wayback Machine. Boing Boing (February 18, 2005) retrieved on August 8, 2006
^ Comedy Central Keeps Colbert E! (Nov 2, 2005) retrieved on August 10, 2006
^ Jon Stewart producing new Comedy Central show, Reuters, (03-Oct-2007) retrieved May 3, 2013
^ "Rumble 2012". Archived from the original on October 7, 2012. Retrieved October 7, 2012. 
^ "Rumble 2012: Jon Stewart and Bill O'Reilly Debate (Live Blog)". Wall Street Journal. Retrieved October 7, 2012. 
^ Huetteman, Emmarie (October 7, 2012). "Stewart and O'Reilly Share Stage in Political Joust". New York Times. Retrieved October 7, 2012. 
^ de Moraes, Lisa (September 18, 2012). "Jon Stewart and Bill O'Reilly to debate in Washington". The Washington Post. Retrieved October 7, 2012. 
^ "Jon Stewart "Strikes" out with Comedy Central". Reuters. Archived from the original on July 9, 2013. Retrieved May 3, 2013. 
^ Carter, Bill. "A Successor to 'Colbert' Is Named". The New York Times. Retrieved 11 December 2014. 
^ Carter, Bill. "Late Success for Latecomer to Late Night 'The Nightly Show With Larry Wilmore' Premieres Jan. 19". The New York Times. Retrieved 11 December 2014. 
^ Carter, Bill "Larry Wilmore to Take Place of Stephen Colbert on Comedy Central."New York Times, 2014-05-09.








v
t
e


Film studios in the United States and Canada



Majors



20th Century Fox
Columbia Pictures
Paramount Pictures
Universal Pictures
Walt Disney Studios
Warner Bros.





Mini-majors



Amblin Partners
CBS Films
Lionsgate
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer
Open Road Films
STX Entertainment
The Weinstein Company





Independent
studios



3D Entertainment
A24
Alcon Entertainment
Amazon Studios
Anchor Bay Films
Broad Green Pictures
Drafthouse Films
Entertainment One
Entertainment Studios
Hasbro Studios
Icon Productions
Image Entertainment
Imagine Entertainment
IMAX Pictures
Lakeshore Entertainment
Magnolia Pictures
Mandalay Pictures
MarVista Entertainment
Miramax
Montecito Picture Company
Morgan Creek Productions
Picturehouse
Regency Enterprises
Relativity Media
Revolution Studios
RKO Pictures
Roadside Attractions
Samuel Goldwyn Films
Troma Entertainment
Vertical Entertainment
Village Roadshow Pictures
Walden Media
WWE Studios





Independent
financers



Annapurna Pictures
Cross Creek Pictures
Legendary Entertainment
LStar Capital
New Regency Productions
Participant Media
Sundance Film Festival
RatPac Entertainment
Red Granite Pictures
Skydance Media
TSG Entertainment
Worldview Entertainment





Producer-owned
independents



1492 Pictures
American Zoetrope
Bad Hat Harry Productions
Bad Robot Productions
Blinding Edge Pictures
Bryanston Pictures
Di Bonaventura Pictures
Fuzzy Door Productions
Happy Madison Productions
ImageMovers
Jim Henson Pictures
Plan B Productions
Lightstorm Entertainment
Smokehouse Pictures
Pearl Street Films
Gary Sanchez Productions
Kennedy/Marshall Company
Platinum Dunes
Silver Pictures






Portal:Film








 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Busboy_Productions&oldid=809692721"					
Categories: Busboy ProductionsThe Daily ShowCompanies based in New York CityFilm production companies of the United StatesMedia companies established in 1998Television production companies of the United StatesHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback linksAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from October 2015 
