Christmas Bells (advertisement) - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search







The topic of this article may not meet Wikipedia's general notability guideline. Please help to establish notability by citing reliable secondary sources that are independent of the topic and provide significant coverage of it beyond its mere trivial mention. If notability cannot be established, the article is likely to be merged, redirected, or deleted.
Find sources: "Christmas Bells" advertisement – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (May 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)





"Christmas Bells"



Scene from the advertisement



Directed by
Carl Willat



Production
company


Colossal Pictures



Distributed by
The Hershey Company



Release date

1989



Running time

15 seconds


Country
United States


"Christmas Bells" is an American television commercial produced by the Hershey Company promoting Hershey's Kisses. The advertisement, produced with stop-motion animation, features Hershey's Kisses, fashioned as a handbell choir, playing the Christmas carol "We Wish You a Merry Christmas". It debuted in 1989 and is shown in the United States each holiday season; as such, it is the longest-running television commercial for the Hershey brand.[1]
Background[edit]
In 1989, the Hershey Company began an advertising campaign for their product Hershey's Kisses, which was referred to as the "whimsy" campaign. Ogilvy & Mather was the advertising agency behind the spot and David Apicella served as Creative Director. Television advertisements would utilize "tabletop stop-motion animation and CG product photography." Colossal Pictures was the animation studio, located in San Francisco, who produced the commercial. Carl Willat directed the spots and performed the stop-motion animation with Gordon Clark. John Dunn, Hershey's brands manager, oversaw the production and helped develop the last-minute idea to create the "Christmas Bells" advertisement.[1] Leah Longan, former marketing director for Hershey, told the New York Times in 1994 they continued to run the advertisement because they "don't wear out like normal commercials," as they are only shown seasonally.[2]
References[edit]



^ a b "Ringing in the Holidays: Hershey's Kisses Chocolates". HersheyArchives.com. January 18, 2011. Retrieved November 18, 2016. 
^ Stuart Elliot (December 9, 1994). "THE MEDIA BUSINESS: Advertising; Perennial Holiday Messages Work". The New York Times. Retrieved November 18, 2016. 



External links[edit]

"Christmas Kisses" on YouTube





 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Christmas_Bells_(advertisement)&oldid=781649957"					
Categories: 1989 in American television1989 worksAmerican television commercialsAdvertisementsAdvertising campaignsTelevision commercialsHidden categories: Articles with topics of unclear notability from May 2017All articles with topics of unclear notability 
