Collins Avenue Productions - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search


Collins Avenue Entertainment




Industry
Reality Television


Genre
Television Production Company


Founded
2008


Founder
Is


Headquarters
Los Angeles, California, United States


Website
CollinsAve.com


Collins Avenue (CollinsAve) is an American television production company run by entertainment executive Jeff Collins. Working in a partnership arrangement with the London-based Content Media Corporation (formerly ContentFilm[1] Group), CollinsAve produces reality programs in the U.S. with international distribution support from a partner company, Content Television (formerly Fireworks Entertainment).
CollinsAve will continue development and production in a five-year deal with Content Media Corporation as a lead investor in return for an equity stake.
Television Productions[edit]
CollinsAve primarily produces television content for networks in the US, including The CW Network, TLC, Lifetime, A&E, Country Music Television, Destination America, E!, Food Network, National Geographic Channel, Spike, WE tv, Vh1, and Animal Planet.
In January 2010, CollinsAve established an innovative partnership with Virgin America Airlines to create one of the first primetime network docuseries - Fly Girls.[2] The series aired March 24, 2010 on the CW Television Network and follows five airline attendants throughout both their professional and personal lives working for the young, high quality airline started in 2007 by Sir Richard Branson.[3]
In February 2011, TLC aired Outrageous Kid Parties. Outrageous Kid Parties follows parents who spend incredible amounts of money to throw over-the-top birthday celebrations for their young children.
On July 13, 2011 Dance Moms premiered on Lifetime. Set in Pittsburgh's renowned Abby Lee Dance Company, owned and operated by notoriously demanding and passionate instructor Abby Lee Miller, Dance Moms follows eight children’s early steps on the road to stardom with their doting mothers who are there for every rehearsal, performance and bow, all under the discerning eye of Miller.
Other shows Collins Avenue has produced include American Stuffers for Animal Planet, The Drama Queen for E!, Ice Moms, Dance Moms: Miami, Dance Moms Chatter, and Abby's Ultimate Dance Competition for Lifetime, American Colony: Meet the Hutterites, Mennonite Made, and Anger Management for National Geographic Channel, and Dance Showdown, Season 3 by D-Trix, broadcast via YouTube.
On April 2, 2012, Collins Avenue was named one of Realscreen's Top 100: http://www.collinsave.com/in-the-news/318-collins-avenue-is-one-of-real-screens-top-100. Also featured on Realscreen's website.
References[edit]


^ ContentFilm Announces Joint Venture Investment in US Reality Production Company, Reuters.com, February 12, 2009
^ CW High on `Fly Girls' - Network Teams Up with Airline on Show, Variety.com, September 23, 2009
^ Talking TV with `Fly Girls' Executive Producer, Forbes.com, March 2010


External links[edit]

Collins Avenue on IMDB via Internet Movie Database
Collins Avenue Website
Dance Moms Miami
American Colony: Meet the Hutterites
Mennonite Made
Dance Moms Miami Videos





 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Collins_Avenue_Productions&oldid=797974290"					
Categories: Television production companies of the United StatesCompanies based in Los AngelesHidden categories: Pages using deprecated image syntaxPages using infobox company with unsupported parameters 
