Comedians (Beavis and Butt-Head) - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



"Comedians"


Beavis and Butt-Head episode



Beavis and Butt-Head stand and watch the comedy club burning



Episode no.
Season 3
Episode 1


Directed by
Mike Judge
Mike DeSeve


Written by
Mike Judge


Original air date
September 6, 1993 (1993-09-06)


Episode chronology





← Previous
"Be All You Can Be"
Next →
"Carwash"





List of Beavis and Butt-Head episodes


"Comedians" is the first episode of the third season of Beavis and Butt-Head and the 28th episode of the series overall. This episode has received heavy controversy after a 5-year-old boy burned down his trailer home, destroying his 2-year-old sister who was sleeping in the next room. It is said that the boy was inspired by this episode, when Beavis and Butt-Head burn down a comedy club.[1]



Contents


1 Plot
2 Controversy
3 References
4 External links



Plot[edit]
Beavis and Butt-Head are sat at home watching television when they see a commercial for a documentary about a stand-up comedian who lives an affluent lifestyle from his earnings. Although Beavis would rather go to Stewart's house and burn things, Butt-Head decides that they should go to the comedy club to become "stand-up chameleons".
They arrive at the club, named "The Laff Hole", and Butt-Head goes on stage first, but only Beavis finds his jokes funny and he is eventually booed off stage. Beavis is next, and the audience exit in droves, leaving only Butt-Head to watch him. Inspired by an earlier act, Beavis attempts to juggle burning newspapers, but ends up burning the club down. The pair watch the fire spread from outside while they declare how funny and cool they both are.
Controversy[edit]
On October 6, 1993 (exactly one month after the episode had aired), Austin Messner, a 5-year-old child in Moraine, Ohio,[2] was watching this episode. That night, he snuck out of bed and attempted to copy the scene when Beavis juggles the newspapers and lights the club on fire. As a result, Messner burned down his trailer, killing his 2-year-old sister.[3][4] One week after the incident, MTV decided to move the episodes to 10:30 PM instead of 7:00 PM and also decided to delete any fire references on their network show. They had to heavily edit the episode before they finally took it off the air.[5]
References[edit]


^ "Cartoon on MTV blamed for fire". New York Times. October 10, 1993. 
^ Garger, Kenneth (October 30, 2011). "As seen on TV". New York Post. 
^ Quindlen, Anna (October 28, 1993). "Public & Private; TV Guide". New York Times. 
^ Ho, Raymond K.K. (December 26, 1994). "How Many Children Must We Bury?". Chicago Tribune. 
^ "11. "Comedians" (Beavis and Butthead)". Complex. September 2009. 


External links[edit]

"Comedians" on IMDb
"Comedians" at TV.com







v
t
e


Beavis and Butt-Head



Characters



Beavis
Butt-Head
Daria Morgendorffer





Media



Beavis and Butt-Head Do America
Beavis and Butt-Head: The Mike Judge Collection
The Beavis and Butt-Head Experience





Episodes



"Comedians"
"Beavis and Butt-Head Are Dead"
"Werewolves of Highland"
"Crying"
"Daughter's Hand"
"Tech Support"
"Drones"
"Holy Cornholio"
"Supersize Me"
"Bathroom Break"
"The Rat"





Video games



MTV's Beavis and Butt-Head
Virtual Stupidity
Do U.





Other



Frog Baseball










 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Comedians_(Beavis_and_Butt-Head)&oldid=810159461"					
Categories: Beavis and Butt-Head episodes1993 American television episodesTelevision episodes pulled from general rotationCartoon controversiesTelevision controversies in the United StatesStand-up comedyHidden categories: Use mdy dates from December 2013Pages using deprecated image syntaxPages using infobox television episode with incorrectly formatted episode list 
