Corday Productions - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search








This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages)







This article has an unclear citation style. The references used may be made clearer with a different or consistent style of citation, footnoting, or external linking. (March 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)









The topic of this article may not meet Wikipedia's notability guidelines for companies and organizations. Please help to establish notability by citing reliable secondary sources that are independent of the topic and provide significant coverage of it beyond its mere trivial mention. If notability cannot be established, the article is likely to be merged, redirected, or deleted.
Find sources: "Corday Productions" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (March 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)









This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (March 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)





(Learn how and when to remove this template message)




Corday Productions


Type

Production company


Industry
Television


Founded
1965


Founders
Ted Corday and Betty Corday


Headquarters
Burbank, California



Key people

Ken Corday (CEO and president)


Corday Productions is an American production company. The company was founded by Ted and Betty Corday in 1965. The company produces the NBC soap opera Days of Our Lives which they have produced since 1965. They are based in Burbank, California. The company is currently run by Ted and Betty Corday's son Ken Corday.[1]



Contents


1 History
2 NetSoaps / Net Novellas
3 Collaboration with TruLOVE
4 Television series
5 References



History[edit]
Producer Ted Corday and his wife Betty were collaborating with William J. Bell to create a new soap opera. The concept of the soap would be centered around a family of doctors.[2] The soap, named Days of Our Lives premiered on November 8, 1965. With the premiere of the soap also came the formation of Corday Productions.[3]
Initially, the series was just intended for the production of Days. But the company did several different productions. The company is now run by the Corday's son Ken Corday.[4]
NetSoaps / Net Novellas[edit]
In April 2014, Corday Productions announced plans to team up with All Screens Media to form NetSoaps/Net Novellas.[5]
The website would be a joint venture between Corday executive Ken Corday and All Screens creator Peter Heumiller. Heumiller had worked as a digital media executive for Comcast.[6] The online network is dedicated to the soap opera and telenovela format. Net Soaps is geared toward American and English speaking audiences while Net Novelas is targeted toward Latin American and Brazilian audiences.[7]
Collaboration with TruLOVE[edit]
In October 2014, Corday announced plans to collaborate with the TruLOVE Network. TruLOVE is an online network with an extensive library of romance stories.[8]
Television series[edit]

Morning Star (1965–1966)
Paradise Bay (1965–1966)
Days of Our Lives (1965–present)
The Young and the Restless (1973–present)

References[edit]


^ "Contact Information for Days of Our Lives". daysofourlives.about.com. Retrieved March 21, 2015. 
^ Gilbert, Annie, All My Afternoons, p. 110.
^ "Cinema". Time. May 11, 1965. Retrieved March 21, 2015. 
^ "About Corday Productions". www.broad-think.com. Retrieved March 21, 2015. 
^ Spangler, Todd (April 4, 2014). "'Days of Our Lives' Producer Launches Digital Soaps Venture (Exclusive)". Variety. Retrieved March 21, 2015. 
^ "The Next Generation of Online Interactive Soap Operas". www.netsoaptv.com. Retrieved March 21, 2015. 
^ Lewis, Errol (April 4, 2014). "Corday Productions Launching NetSoaps/Net Novelas, A New Interactive Soap Venture with All Screens Media". Soap Opera Network. Retrieved March 21, 2015. 
^ "Corday Productions Partners With BroadLit, Inc. For New TV Property". PR Newswire. Retrieved March 21, 2015. 






 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Corday_Productions&oldid=748209993"					
Categories: Television production companies of the United StatesDays of Our LivesHidden categories: Wikipedia references cleanup from March 2015All articles needing references cleanupArticles covered by WikiProject Wikify from March 2015All articles covered by WikiProject WikifyArticles with topics of unclear notability from March 2015All articles with topics of unclear notabilityArticles needing additional references from March 2015All articles needing additional references 
