DiGa - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search


DiGa Entertainment


Type

Subsidiary


Founded
2010; 7 years ago (2010)


Owner
ITV plc - 51%
Viacom - 49%


Parent
ITV Studios
Viacom Media Networks


Website
www.digastudios.com


DIGA is a full service, platform-agnostic production company and studio focused on the creation, development, and execution of content across a wide array of genres and media. Founded by former MTV President, Tony DiSanto, DIGA’s brand is built on creative diversity, genre-busting, talent development, and a rebellious – sometimes subversive – pop-sensibility. DIGA’s goal is to bring ideas to life by any means necessary, from the traditional scripted and reality development process, to digital incubation of concepts, to acquisitions of IP/titles or the creation of original IPs through its book division for later adaptation to other media, to a variety of creative and business partnerships with talent, studios, media companies and even other production companies. There are no “rules.” The path taken is that which best serves the needs of a particular project.[1]
Since its launch in January 2011, DIGA has developed and produced content for A&E, CW, History, Lifetime, CMT, MTV, NBCU Studios, VH1, Bravo, MTV2, LOGO, Disney Channel, MTV International, Oxygen, YouTube, Nickelodeon, and many others.
In 2014, ITV Studios, a world leader in content production and distribution, acquired a 51% ownership stake in DIGA, helping to expand DIGA’s reach and growth.
DIGA was formerly DiGa Vision, opened in 2011, and co-founded by DiSanto and Liz Gateley, former Executive Vice President, MTV.



Contents


1 Projects
2 Personnel

2.1 Tony DiSanto - CEO, Founder
2.2 Tommy Coriale - General Manager


3 References



Projects[edit]
Projects announced in development include:[2]

The Jerky Boys - a live-action/animated hybrid comedy starring The Jerky Boys, centered around the many characters featured in the classic phone pranks.
Neil Strauss Bio Series Project - a biography series that adapts Neil's unique storytelling style to television, integrating archival footage, interviews and newly shot scripted scenes
Jay Sankey: Historical Deception Project - magic creator/comedian Jay Sankey and his team break down historic deceptions and see if they could be rebooted for modern times
Traci Stumpf Project - a series starring the lively co-host of MTV's Bugging Out


Projects in production:[3]

Scream (MTV)
Teen Wolf (MTV)
MTV's Bugging Out (MTV International)
Binge Thinking (MTV2)
The Ed Bassmaster Show (CMT)

Personnel[edit]
Tony DiSanto - CEO, Founder[edit]
Tony DiSanto began his career as an intern at MTV while studying Film & Television at NYU. This began a 20-year attachment to the network working as a Director, Producer, Executive Producer, and eventually President. DiSanto was responsible for co-creating/developing the long running Total Request Live (TRL) and Developed/Executive Produced hit series including Made, Run’s House, Laguna Beach, Nick Cannon’s Wild ‘n Out, The Hills, America’s Best Dance Crew, Jersey Shore, and Teen Mom. In 2009, DiSanto was appointed President of MTV, taking the reins on scripted & reality series, live events, specials, and feature films for TV, leading to the biggest ratings turnaround in the channel’s history in 2010.[4] Now, with DIGA, DiSanto is focusing his creative vision and experience into creating content across a wide array of networks and platforms.[5]
Tommy Coriale - General Manager[edit]
Tommy Coriale is responsible for overseeing all of DIGA’s daily operations including production, finance, accounting, and legal affairs across all shows, scripted and unscripted. He is also tasked with coordinating and negotiating new business ventures. Tommy has been an integral part in refining the financial structure of the company. Prior to joining DIGA in September 2014, Tommy worked for Eastern TV on Love & Hip Hop and several pilots. Before that he spent seven years at Shed Media in Los Angeles and worked on series such as: Super Nanny, The Real Housewives of New York City, Bethenny Ever After, and Basketball Wives. Tommy graduated from Quinnipiac University with a degree in TV & Film Production with a Minor in Dramatic Arts.
References[edit]



^ "ABOUT – DIGA Productions". www.digastudios.com. Retrieved 2016-06-03. 
^ Andreeva, Nellie (2016-04-29). "Tony DiSanto's DIGA Ups Tommy Coriale To General Manager, Sets 'Jerky Boys', Neil Strauss, Jay Sankey, Traci Stumpf Shows". Deadline. Retrieved 2016-06-03. 
^ "Work – DIGA Productions". www.digastudios.com. Retrieved 2016-06-03. 
^ "MTV Ends 2010 With Biggest Ratings Gain in a Decade (NASDAQ:VIAB)". ir.viacom.com. Retrieved 2016-06-03. 
^ "Tony DiSanto". IMDb. Retrieved 2016-06-03. 



Diga Company Website http://www.digastudios.com




 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=DiGa&oldid=788519140"					
Categories: Companies based in New York CityCompanies established in 2011Television production companies of the United StatesTelevision studios in the United States 
