Environmental Media Awards - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

Not to be confused with MTV Europe Music Awards.






This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (October 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)









The topic of this article may not meet Wikipedia's general notability guideline. Please help to establish notability by citing reliable secondary sources that are independent of the topic and provide significant coverage of it beyond its mere trivial mention. If notability cannot be established, the article is likely to be merged, redirected, or deleted.
Find sources: "Environmental Media Awards" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (October 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)



The Environmental Media Awards have been awarded by the Environmental Media Association since 1991 to the best television episode or film with an environmental message.[1]
The Environmental Media Association (EMA) is a non-profit organization created in 1989 which believes "that through television, film and music, the entertainment community has the power to influence the environmental awareness of millions of people."[2]
See also[edit]

Environmental journalism
Environmentalism in film and television
Global 500 Roll of Honour
Global Environmental Citizen Award
Goldman Environmental Prize
Grantham Prize for Excellence in Reporting on the Environment
Heroes of the Environment
National Film Award for Best Non-Feature Environment/Conservation/Preservation Film
Presidential Environmental Youth Awards
Tyler Prize for Environmental Achievement

References[edit]



^ "What are the EMA Awards". Archived from the original on 2015-09-20. 
^ "About the Environmental Media Association". 



External links[edit]

EMA Awards Homepage




This film award–related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.


v
t
e









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Environmental_Media_Awards&oldid=801768924"					
Categories: American film awardsAmerican television awardsEnvironmental awardsFilm award stubsHidden categories: Articles needing additional references from October 2016All articles needing additional referencesArticles with topics of unclear notability from October 2016All articles with topics of unclear notabilityAll stub articles 
