Film at 11 - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search







This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (September 2014) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)



"Film at 11" is a US idiom from television news broadcasting, where the viewers are informed that footage of a breaking news story will be screened later that day.
11 o'clock is the traditional time slot for late evening local news broadcasts in the Eastern and Pacific time zones of the United States, while the news comes at 10:00 in much of the rest of the country.
History[edit]
Television news gathering originally involved crews using 16 mm film that would be processed at the station and had to be edited before it could be aired. The time taken for this process meant that film of an early evening event would only be available in time for the late newscast.[1]
The purpose of these "Film at 11" promotions was to attract viewers and increase the program's ratings. However, news broadcasts were not counted in ratings during the time 16mm film was used in newsgathering and hence promotions typically took the form of "newsflashes" or "special reports" that conveyed the facts of the story.
The phrase entered popular culture in the 1970s, often describing ordinary or mundane events with an implication that the said events were being overly sensationalized.
The phrase is also often used as a short-hand expression akin to "tell you later."
Whether or not he is to be credited with originating the phrase or not, the most popular reference in West Coast local news can be attributed to Jerry Dunphy during his time with KABC-TV in Los Angeles. The phrase can be found in many TV shows and movies from the 1960s through the 1980s.
The phrase became obsolete with the advent of videotape as the medium of choice for news reporting.
References[edit]



^ Kovalchik, Kara (25 March 2014). The Origins of 8 Nearly Obsolete Phrases, mental floss







This article related to television terminology is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.


v
t
e








This article about television in the United States is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.


v
t
e









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Film_at_11&oldid=808774605"					
Categories: American English idiomsTelevision newsFilm productionTelevision stubsUnited States television stubsHidden categories: Articles needing additional references from September 2014All articles needing additional referencesAll stub articles 
