Fusion TV - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

For the website originally part of the channel at Fusion.net, see Splinter News.


Fusion TV





Launched
October 28, 2013; 4 years ago (October 28, 2013)[1]


Owned by
Fusion Media Group
(Univision Communications)


Picture format
1080i (HDTV)
(HD feed downgraded to letterboxed 480i for SDTVs)


Slogan
Pop Culture. Satire. News. This is Fusion.


Country
United States


Language
English


Broadcast area
United States


Headquarters
Doral, Florida


Replaced
ABC News Now


Sister channel(s)
Univision
Univision Noticias
Galavisión
UniMás
Univision Deportes Network
Univision tlnovelas
El Rey Network


Website
www.fusion.net



Availability



Satellite


Dish Network
Channel 244 (SD only)


DirecTV
Channel 342 (HD only)


Cable


Verizon FiOS
Channel 108 (SD only)


Available on other select cable systems
(check local listings for channels)


IPTV


AT&T U-verse
Channel 1206 (HD)
Channel 206 (SD)


Google Fiber
Channel 105 (HD)


Streaming media


Available from select broadband Internet providers
Check with a provider for details


Apple TV
Fusion


Internet Protocol television


PlayStation Vue
Internet Protocol television


Fusion TV is a television cable and satellite news and satire channel owned by Fusion Media Group, an American multi-platform media company that is owned by Univision Communications, which relies in part on the resources of its parent company's news division, Noticias Univision.[2][3] In addition to conventional television distribution, Fusion is also streamed online and on mobile platforms to subscribers of participating cable and satellite providers.[4]
Launched on October 28, 2013, the network's content features news, lifestyle, pop culture, satire and entertainment aimed at English-speaking millennials, including those of a Hispanic background; the channel is Univision's first major push into English-language programming.[5] Fusion is based out of "NewsPort", a converted studio facility at 8551 NW 30th Terrace in the Miami suburb of Doral, Florida that it shares with Noticias Univision and Univision flagship station WLTV-DT; it maintains additional studios in Los Angeles and bureaus in Mexico City, New York City, and Washington, D.C.[3][6]



Contents


1 Background
2 History
3 Programming

3.1 Former shows


4 Key personnel

4.1 Executive leadership
4.2 Key hires


5 Carriage and content distribution
6 References
7 External links



Background[edit]
Apart from being Univision Communications' first attempt in the world of English-language cable networks before El Rey Network, Fusion is ABC News' third attempt in the world of 24-hour cable news. In 1982, ABC News and Group W (then a division of Westinghouse) first launched a 24-hour news channel called Satellite News Channel. But due to low clearance from cable systems, both of them sold the channel after just over a year on the air to CNN (a subsidiary of Turner Broadcasting System, which has been under TimeWarner's control since 1996), which shut it down. Twenty-two years later, in 2004, ABC News launched ABC News Now, which encountered the same problem.
History[edit]
In December 2010, the newly appointed president of Noticias Univision, Isaac Lee, announced plans to start a 24-hour English language cable news channel aimed at American Hispanics.[7] Univision Communications would later on, in late 2011, enter into discussions with Walt Disney Company-owned ABC News about entering into a joint venture to develop the channel.[8] The discussions bore fruit with the companies' formal announcement of the channel on May 8, 2012, initially projecting a debut during the first half of 2013[9] (the channel would be given its name, Fusion, in February 2013).[2] On October 4, 2013, the company announced it had named Isaac Lee as Chief Executive Officer to replace interim CEO Beau Ferrari.[10]
Fusion's formal launch date and its initial programming schedule was announced on August 1, 2013.[3] The channel formally launched on October 28, 2013, buoyed earlier in the day by a simulcast of ABC's Good Morning America and Univision's ¡Despierta América! designed to promote Fusion's launch and programming.[11] After leading off with a three-minute musical number at 6:57 p.m. Eastern Time on October 28, 2013,[12] Fusion began regular programming with the debut of America with Jorge Ramos.[13]
Fusion's target audience consists mainly of millennials (roughly the age bracket of adults 18–34), a group generally regarded as digitally fluent and normally favors social media and internet sources to gain news and base opinions, usually eschewing traditional broadcast and print sources. To that end, Fusion gears its programming less towards the constant coverage of breaking news, instead emphasizing context and analysis on news and issues, along with interviews, documentaries, and long-form reports on current events, lifestyle, and pop culture.[5] Fusion also employs an on-air blending of serious topics and discussions that is, more often than not, laced with irreverence and humor (a "common language" among millennials according to host Alicia Menendez) that aims to reduce the air of pretense and seriousness with which other news outlets treat current topics and issues.[11] The "fusion" of seriousness and lighteartedness has been evident in Fusion's primetime lineup: America with Jorge Ramos, in its first week, took a more conventional approach, featuring interviews with President Barack Obama and United States Senator Ted Cruz,[14] while other early Fusion shows Alicia Menendez Tonight featured more personal and less serious topics, and programs including No, You Shut Up ventured towards irreverence and even satire.[13]
Fusion was originally conceived to primarily attract a younger audience of an English-speaking Hispanic and Latino American background; about one-fifth of millennials are classified as being of Latino descent[11] and have generally been well-acclimated with English language society in the United States, either as emigrants or as U.S. nationals by birth. After receiving some backlash during development over concerns that too much of a focus was placed on ethnicity, Fusion would broaden its scope during its development, aiming to "engage and champion a young, diverse and inclusive America," regardless of cultural or language background.[6] Isaac Lee, who serves as Fusion's CEO in addition to President of News for Univision, has stated that Hispanic millennials see themselves as part of the broad American culture and that "they want to be part of the same room and part of the same conversation" as non-Hispanics.[5][15]
Fusion operates out of a former warehouse in Doral, Florida (billed by staffers as the "Newsport")[16] that is shares with Noticias Univision, WLTV-DT and WAMI-TV. Additionally some resources are also shared with ABC News and Noticias Univision[17] (the above-mentioned interview of President Obama, conducted by ABC News correspondent Jim Avila, was one such example of that reliance).[5] However, the network operates separately from ABC's and Univision's news divisions, employing its own on-air talent, correspondents, management, production staff and board of directors.[18] Univision handles programming responsibilities for Fusion, while Disney-ABC Television Group provides advertising sales and handles cable and satellite distribution for the channel.[3] ABC News president Ben Sherwood noted that while the channel would eventually feature all original programming, repurposed content from ABC News and Univision content aired on the channel during late night timeslots in its early months, along with paid programming (which has since departed the schedule completely).[19]
In December 2015, it was reported that Disney was in talks to sell its stake in Fusion to Univision.[20] The transaction was complete on April 21, 2016.[21]
The company laid off a large portion of its workforce on November 16, 2016, ahead of the channel's anticipated reorganization in which the assets of Gizmodo Media Group and The Onion would form the new core of the station's programming.[22]
On July 24, 2017, Fusion relaunched its article based online presence under the brand "Splinter" while things relating to the channel itself remained at Fusion.net branded as Fusion TV. The article based half of Fusion's website content switched to the Fusion.kinja.com domain in May prior to the re branding.[23]
Programming[edit]
The initial schedule on Fusion included programs intended for a younger audience than most cable news shows attract, many of which featured the lively, irreverent approach the network originally intended to make its hallmark.[1][24] The network has added new shows and made adjustments since its launch, and carries the following shows as of July 2017:


Program
Notes


Cheddar on Fusion TV
Business, tech, entertainment and media news live from the floor of the New York Stock Exchange


Rude Tube
British television program that covers humorous online clips presented by English comedian Alex Zane.


Strange Medicine
A medical news program hosted by Dr. Juan Rivera, Univision's Chief Medical Correspondent who trained at the prestigious Johns Hopkins Hospital.


The A.V. Club, Hosted By John Teti
Program highlighting topics at A.V. Club


The Cannabusiness Report
Program looking at the business, facts and culture of legalized marijuana by Gonzo journalist Ryan Nerz


Drug Wars
A look at the elite law enforcement fighting drug trafficking.


Naked Truth
Investigative series featuring different topics per episode featuring Fusion correspondent Natasha Del Toro.


Nightline on Fusion
A Fusion version of the ABC show Nightline


Outpost
Travel show


Show Me Something
Jorge Ramos hits the road with politicians, business leaders and artists in search ways of seeing the world.


The Fusion Feed
Weekly program featuring a diverse set of contributors who weigh in passionately on subjects ranging from politics to pop culture


The Traffickers
Show that looks at the black market place and smuggling across the world


Former shows[edit]

America with Jorge Ramos - Reports, analysis, interviews, and discussions on significant news topics hosted by the Noticiero Univision anchor. Originally a daily newscast at Fusion's launch, America moved to once-weekly installments in March 2014, allowing the program and Ramos to do field reports and other long-form features.[25]
Back Home - A weekly documentary-style show that follows celebrity guests making voyages to their family's country of origin.
Come Here & Say That (Formerly Alicia Menendez Tonight) - Discussions and commentaries on daily issues featuring former HuffPost Live host Alicia Menendez.
The Dan Le Batard Show with Stugotz – A simulcast of the ESPN Radio program hosted by Miami Herald sportswriter Dan Le Batard (the TV simulcast moved to ESPNU after Disney sold its ownership in Fusion).
D.N.A. – An hour-long interactive show hosted by Derrick Ashong that focused on social issues.
Fusion Investigates - The banner name for Fusion's long-form investigative and narrative programming and the team devoted to it, emphasizing "stories that will have an impact," and topics such as the economy, immigration, injustice, and corruption featuring Mariana van Zeller.
Fusion Live – a 1-hour daily program hosted by Mariana Atencio, Pedro Andrade, and Yannis Pappas that is what Atencio describes as "NPR meets The Daily Show,"[11] presenting news, discussions, interviews, and live performances in an informative yet edgy manner. Originally a 2-hour breakfast television show at Fusion's launch (when it went by the title The Morning Show), the program moved to a late afternoon/early evening berth in March 2014 as part of a major schedule adjustment by Fusion.[25]
Good Morning Today – Executive produced by former Daily Show writer/producer David Javerbaum and created by The Jim Henson Company (through its Henson Alternative banner), this 15-minute show spoofed conventional breakfast television programming, with the setting of a morning news show in an alternate universe populated by live-action personalities and computer-animated anchors. The show was filmed with the use of The Jim Henson Company's Digital Puppet Studio, a proprietary technology that enables performers to physically puppeteer and voice computer-generated characters in real time.
Like, Share, Die – An animated sketch series created alongside Mondo Media, featuring episodes of their online web shows.
No, You Shut Up! – Another David Javerbaum/Henson Alternative collaboration, this 25-minute combination of topical discussion and comedy starred Paul F. Tompkins and a panel of puppet commentators (played by the Miskreant Puppets from Puppet Up!).[14][26]
Open Source – A show hosted by KMEX-DT news anchor León Krauze that covers "a mix of politics, pop-culture and really weird stuff."[27] Just as with America with Jorge Ramos, Open Source began as a nightly program before shifting to weekly installments in March 2014.[25]
The Soccer Gods - A weekly program that offers "an irreverent, nuanced, North American perspective" on the sport of soccer and the pomp and passion that surrounds it.
Sports Talkers – A half-hour show hosted Rebecca Delgado Smith, Billy Scafuri and Adam Lustick that combined elements of sports talk radio and improvisational comedy.
Unreported World - A United Kingdom import from Channel 4.[28]
The Young Turks – A current affairs show with progressive commentary with hosts from the online TYT Network (a one-hour show on tour ran during the 2016 presidential election).[29]

Key personnel[edit]
Executive leadership[edit]

Isaac Lee – Chief Executive Officer
Jon Stern – VP and Head of Business Development

Key hires[edit]
Towards its one-year anniversary, a series of high-profile hires of digital-native journalists[30] created high expectations for the young media company. NPR's David Folkenflik called Fusion "One of the most interesting experiments we've seen in television (...) since the Emergence of Fox News Channel".[31] Those hires were later laid off or moved to Splinter as the focus of the channel changed and the website split off.

Jane Spencer – Former editor-in-chief, Digital Platforms[32] Now at The Guardian.
Anna Holmes – Former editor, Digital Voices[33] Now at First Look Media.
Felix Salmon – Former senior editor, digital[34] Now at Cause & Effect.
Mariana Santos – Director, Innovative Storytelling[35]
Tim Pool – Former director of media innovation[36]
Dodai Stewart – Former executive director. Now editor-in-chief at Splinter News.
Alexis Madrigal – Now with The Atlantic.

Carriage and content distribution[edit]
By the time that Disney-ABC and Univision announced the channel's name – Fusion – on February 11, 2013, the channel already signed carriage agreements with major pay television providers including Verizon, Cablevision, Charter Communications, Cox Communications, AT&T U-verse and Google Fiber. Fusion replaced ABC News Now on most cable systems; that network ceased operations on October 28, 2013, the day of Fusion's debut.
The channel is primarily carried on the digital basic tiers of participating providers,[2][3] and premiered to a reach of approximately 20 million homes, one-fifth of the total U.S. households with subscription television services.[5] Fusion is currently seeking carriage on additional providers, with deals pending or not yet reached with notable providers including Comcast and Time Warner Cable. The channel was added to the Dish Network lineup after a new carriage deal was reached between Dish and Disney. Currently the channel on Dish Network airs only in 480i SD.[26][37] On the week of September 22, 2014, Fusion was placed in test mode on DirecTV channel 342 in preparation for launch on the carrier along with sister channel the Longhorn Network.[38] As of November 13, 2014, Longhorn Network and Fusion were removed from test mode as DirecTV and Disney/ESPN were unable to at that time reach a carriage agreement.[39] On December 23, 2014, DirecTV announced a wide-ranging distribution agreement with Disney to carry Fusion in early 2015, The channel went live on January 21, 2015.[40] Fusion's goal, according to Board of Directors member and ABC News president Ben Sherwood, is to reach 60 million homes within five years of its debut.[14]
In addition to its on-air presence, Fusion posts nearly all of its content online through its Fusion.net website and is available via on demand content on Apple TV. The network also plans to have a mobile app for use in smartphones and tablet computers up and running.[26]
References[edit]


^ a b James, Meg (August 1, 2013). "ABC-Univision cable network, FUSION, to launch Oct. 28". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved August 2, 2013. 
^ a b c Kim, Susanna (February 11, 2013). "ABC and Univision Announce New Cable Network 'Fusion' Will Launch Later in 2013". ABC News. Retrieved May 14, 2013. 
^ a b c d e Villafane, Veronica (March 5, 2013). "Fusion Gears Up For Late Summer Launch". TV News Check. Retrieved May 14, 2013. 
^ "About Fusion – FusionLive". Fusionlive.tumblr.com. 2013-10-28. Retrieved 2014-01-28. 
^ a b c d e "Univision-ABC channel Fusion launching in a bid for young Latinos," from Los Angeles Times, 10/28/2013
^ a b "Fusion's Debut Shows Serious, Fun Sides," from TVNewsCheck, 10/29/2013
^ "Univision president says he'll start 24-hr news channel". Media Moves. December 17, 2010. Retrieved August 3, 2013. 
^ Szalai, Georg (February 7, 2012). "ABC News, Univision Discussing English-Language News Network". The Hollywood Reporter. Retrieved May 14, 2013. 
^ James, Meg; Chmielewski, Dawn (May 7, 2012). "ABC News, Univision to launch English-language news network". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved May 14, 2013. 
^ "Isaac Lee Named CEO of Fusion". Businesswire.com. 2013-10-04. Retrieved 2014-01-28. 
^ a b c d "Fusion Wants Young Latinos To Turn On Their TVs," from NPR's Weekend Edition, 10/26/2013
^ "Sign-on video premiering Fusion, from Fusion.net, accessed 10/29/2013
^ a b "With Fusion’s debut, a bid for laughs and then a serious turn," from Miami Herald, 10/28/2013
^ a b c "New U.S. TV network fuses news, satire for young Hispanics," from Retuers, 10/27/2013
^ "Univision And ABC News Launch New TV Channel ‘Fusion,’" interview with Isaac Lee from Here & Now (WBUR/NPR), aired 10/28/2013
^ "ABC and Univision's love child bursts to life," from Associated Press, 10/19/2013
^ James, Meg (May 19, 2011). "Univision plans three new cable TV channels". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved May 14, 2013. 
^ Vivian says:. "Fusion names board of directors, reveals more details". Mediamoves.com. Retrieved 2014-01-28. 
^ Guthrie, Marisa (May 7, 2012). "ABC News, Univision Joint Venture Not Looking to Compete With CNN, MSNBC, Fox News". The Hollywood Reporter. Retrieved May 14, 2013. 
^ https://next.ft.com/content/ec752c9c-a8f9-11e5-955c-1e1d6de94879
^ James, Meg. "Walt Disney Co.'s ABC sells its Fusion stake to Univision, exits joint venture". Los Angeles Times. Los Angeles Times. Retrieved 21 April 2016. 
^ Steinberg, Brian (November 16, 2016). "Fusion Will Lay Off Employees, Use Shows Based on Former Gawker Assets". Variety. Retrieved November 16, 2016. 
^ Tani, Maxwell. "Fusion is planning to rebrand under a new name: Splinter". Business Insider. Retrieved 11 July 2017. 
^ Stelter, Brian (August 1, 2013). "Fusion Announces Premiere Date and Prime-Time Schedule". New York Times. Retrieved August 16, 2013. 
^ a b c "Fusion Added to Dish Network, Shifts Programming," from TVNewser.com, 3/4/2014
^ a b c "Meet Fusion, The ABC-Univision Frankenbaby That Wants Millennials To Laugh And Get Their News On," from BuzzFeed, 10/27/2013
^ "''Open Source with Leon Krauze'' page on". Fusion.net. Archived from the original on 2014-02-09. Retrieved 2014-01-28. 
^ http://deadline.com/2015/11/unreported-world-fusion-series-premiere-1201605933/
^ https://tytnetwork.com/tytonfusion/
^ Fusion Hires Alexis Madrigal of TheAtlantic.com to Bolster Tech Coverage from The New York Times
^ AUDIO: Fusion Marks One Year In News from NPR's Here and Now radio program
^ Fusion Names Jane Spencer Its Editor for Digital Content – NYTimes.com
^ Jezebel’s Anna Holmes Lands at Fusion, Too – Recode.net
^ Felix Salmon to Take On Web-Based Role at Fusion – NYTimes.com
^ Fusion Interactive Team pushes boundaries of storytelling – Knight Foundation
^ Fusion expected to name Tim Pool its Director of Media Innovation – NYTimes.com
^ Disney and Dish Ink Long-Term Deal, Giving Satcaster Internet-Streaming Rights to Live TV – Variety
^ Transponder Maps: Domestic & LatinAm – Dbstalk.com
^ DIRECTV Rumor Alert – SatelliteGuys
^ DIRECTV and The Walt Disney Company Sign Expansive Agreement – DirecTV.com


External links[edit]

Official website
Fusion To Pair Kooky Creatures With Veteran Anchors To Hook Young Viewers On News – Variety







v
t
e


Fusion Media Group



Broadcasting



Fusion
El Rey Network





Internet



Fusion.net
Univision.com
The Root
Onion, Inc. (40%)

The A.V. Club
Clickhole
StarWipe


Gizmodo Media Group

Deadspin
Gizmodo
Jalopnik
Jezebel
Lifehacker
Kotaku
io9
Splinter







Related



Univision Communications (Parent)












v
t
e


Univision Communications



Corporate directors



Randy Falco





Broadcast television networks



UniMás
Univision





Cable television networks



El Rey Network
Fusion
Galavisión
Univision Canada (licensed; owned by Corus/TLN)
Univision Deportes Network
Univision Noticias
Univision tlnovelas





Univision Radio




Stations



KAMA-FM
KBBT
KBRG
KBTQ
KCOR
KDXX
KESS-FM
KFLC
KFZO
KGBT
KGBT-FM
KHOT-FM
KHOV-FM
KISF
KKMR
KLAT
KLJA
KLLE
KLNO
KLNV
KLQB
KLQV
KLSQ
KLTN
KLVE
KMYO
KOMR
KOND
KOVE-FM
KQBU-FM
KQMR
KRCD
KRCV
KRDA
KRGT
KROM
KSCA
KSOL
KSQL
KTNQ
KVVF
KVVZ
KXTN-FM
WADO
WAMR-FM
WAQI
WKAQ
WKAQ-FM
WOJO
WPPN
WQBA
WQBU-FM
WRTO
WRTO-FM
WUKQ
WUKQ-FM
WVIV-FM
WXNY-FM
WYEL





Radio networks



Univision Deportes Radio








Univision owned and/or
operated stations



KABE-CD
KAKW-DT
KDTV-DT
KEZT-CD
KFTV-DT
KMEX-DT
KTVW-DT
KUTH-DT
KUVE-DT
KUVN-DT
KUVS-DT
KWEX-DT
KXLN-DT
WFDC-DT1
WGBO-DT
WLII-DT/WSUR-DT
WLTV-DT
WQHS-DT
WUVC-DT
WUVG-DT
WUVP-DT
WXTV-DT





UniMás owned and/or
operated stations



KBTF-CD
KFPH-DT
KFSF-DT
KTFD-DT1
KTFF-DT
KFTH-DT
KTFK-DT
KTFO-CD
KTFQ-DT1
KFTR-DT
KFTU-DT
KNIC-DT
KSTR-DT
WAMI-DT
WFPA-CD
WFTT-DT1
WFUT-DT
WOTF-DT1
WTNC-LD
WUTF-DT1
WXFT-DT





Other television stations



KNIC-CD (dark)
KUVI-DT (Justice)
WFTY-DT (Justice)
WMGM-TV (Justice)
WRCF-CD (Escape)
WSTE-DT (Spanish Independent)





Other subsidiaries



Fusion Media Group

Gizmodo Media Group

Deadspin
Gizmodo
Jalopnik
Jezebel
Lifehacker
Kotaku
Splinter


The Root
Onion, Inc. (40%)

The A.V. Club
ClickHole




Entravision Communications (10%)








1 Univision owns these station licenses, however they are operated by Entravision under local marketing agreements.












v
t
e


Television news in the United States



Broadcast divisions



ABC News
CBS News
NBC News
PBS NewsHour
Noticias Telemundo
Noticias Univision





National cable/
satellite channels



BBC World News
CGTN America
CNN

HLN
CNN International
CNN en Español


Fox News
i24 News
MSNBC
Newsmax TV
One America News
RT America
TheBlaze
Non-profits

Free Speech TV
Link TV







Business channels



Bloomberg TV
Cheddar
CNBC

CNBC World


Fox Business





Specialty channels



C-SPAN
ESPNews
Fusion





Weather



AccuWeather

Channel
Network


The Weather Channel

Local Now
Weatherscan


WeatherNation TV





Broadband services



National

CBSN
Shift


Specialty

AJ+
Vice News







Outsourcing



AerisWeather
Independent News Network
Weather Services International





Defunct



ABC channels

ABC News Now
Satellite News


Al Jazeera America
All News Channel
CNN channels

CNNfn
CNN Pipeline
CNNSI


Current TV
FNN-SCORE
News Central
NBC channels

America's Talking
NBC Weather Plus


CBC Newsworld International
The Weather Cast
TouchVision
UPI Newstime
Univision Noticias












v
t
e


International news channels



Africa



Africanews
Africa 24
Al Nile
AIT News
ANN7
Arise News
CGTN Africa
Channels TV
Dzair News
Echourouk News
eNCA
Ennahar TV
KTN News Channel
Libya 24
MBC News Channel
Medi1 TV
Nessma TV
Nile TV
ONTV
Presse Africaine
RTS 24
SABC News International
STV Notícias
Sudan News 24
TVC News
ZBC News
A24 news channel




Specialty news



CNBC Africa








Asia



10 News (Israel)
24 News HD
92 News
24 Ghanta
Aaj News TV
Aaj Tak
Ada Derana
AksyonTV International
Al Arabiya
Al Ekhbariya
Al Jazeera
Al Jazeera English
Al Mayadeen
Al-Alam News Network
Al-Manar
ANN
Apna News
ARY News
Asianet News
Astro Awani
ATN News
Bangla News TV
BeritaSatu TV
Bernama News Channel
Blue Ocean Network
CCTV-13
CGTN
Channel 10
Channel 24 (Bangladesh)
Channel NewsAsia
CNC Chinese
CNC World
CNN Indonesia
CNN International Asia Pacific
CNN International South Asia
CNN Philippines (part of RPN)
CNN-News18
CTi News
CTS News Information Channel
CTV News Channel
Dawn News
DD News
Din News
Dunya News
DZRH News Television
Eagle TV
EBC News
edaily TV
Ekattor TV
Era News
Express News
FNN
Focus Bangla
FTV News
Gemini News
Geo News
Geo Tez
GMA News TV International
GNN
HispanTV
i-CABLE News Channel (Hong Kong)
i24news
IBN-Lokmat
India News
India Today
India TV
Indus News
iNews
Inquirer 990 TV
IRINN
Jaag TV
Jan TV
JNN
Jordan News TV
KBS 24 News
Kolkata TV
Kompas TV
KTN News
Lahore News
LBCI News
Lotus News
Ma'an News TV
Mahuaa Khobor
Malai Murasu TV
Manorama News
MBN (part of Maeil Broadcasting Network)
MetroTV
MH1 News
MNC
MNC News
MNC World News
Myanmar News TV
NDTV 24x7
NDTV India
News18 India
News 18 Kerala
News 24 (India)
News 24 (Nepal)
News Live
News One
News Time
News World India
NewsX
NHK World TV
NNN
now News
NTV News 24
OSN News
PAK News
Phoenix InfoNews Channel
Press TV
PTV News
PTV World
Puthiya Thalaimurai TV
Raj News
Republic TV
Royal News
Sahara Samay
SAMAA TV
Sathiyam News TV
SET News
Sky News Arabia
Somoy TV
Star Asia News
Such News
Sun News
Syria News Channel
Tara Newz
TBS News Bird
Thanthi TV
Times Now
TNEWS
TNN24
TOLOnews
TV Asahi News & Sports
TV9 Gujarat
TV9 Kannada
TV9 Maharashtra
TV9 Telugu
TV24 (India)
TVBN
TVBS-NEWS
VSH News
VTV24
Waqt News
WION
Yemen News TV
Yemen Today
Yonhap News TV
YTN
Zee 24 Taas
Zee News




Specialty news



Business Plus
BTVI
Bloomberg TV Philippines
CCTV-2
CNC Finance and Business
China Business Network
CNBC Arabiya
CNBC Asia
CNBC Awaaz
CNBC TV18
ET Now
NDTV Profit
Nikkei CNBC
now Business News Channel
SBS-CNBC
TTV Finance
UBN
World Business Satellite
Zee Business








Europe



112 Ukraine
24 Horas
24 Vesti
3/24
A1 News Channel
Al Jazeera Balkans
Al Jazeera Türk
Antena 3 Romania
ATV
BBC Arabic Television
BBC Persian Television
BBC News Channel
BBC World News
Belarus 24
BFM TV
CMTV
CNews
CNN International EMEA
CNN Türk
ČT24
DW-TV
Echo TV
Espreso TV
euronews
France Info
France 24
Habertürk TV
Hír TV
Info TV
Jurnal TV
LCI
LTV 24
M1
Makedonija 24
MIR 24
Moscow 24
MSNBC EMEA
MundoVision
N1
Digi 24
Nou 24
Nova TV 24
News 24 (Albania)
NTV (Turkey)
Ora News
OSN News
Palitra News
RTK 3
RT
RT Spanish
Russia-24
Rusiya Al-Yaum
SIC Notícias
Sky News International
Superstacja
TA3
Top News
TRT Haber
TRT World
TVI 24
TV Vijesti
Uzreport TV




Specialty news



Bloomberg HT
CNBC Europe
Eurosport News
RBC TV








North America,
Central America,
and Caribbean



ADN 40
Alhurra
ATN NDTV 24x7
ATN Times Now
AZNoticias
Bloomberg El Financiero
Canal Antigua
CMC
CBC News Network
CBSN
CDN 37
CGTN America
CNN
CNN en Español
CNN International
CP24
CTV News Channel
Efekto TV
Excélsior TV
FOROtv
Fox News International
FSTV
Global News1
HLN
Ici RDI
LCN
Link TV
LocalNow
Milenio TV
MSNBC
News 13
Newsmax TV
Newsy
NotimexTV
One America News Network
VOA TV
Telefórmula
The Blaze
TN23(Guatemala)
Univision Noticias




Specialty news



AccuWeather Network
AdR
Bloomberg Television
BNN
Cheddar
CPAC
C-SPAN
CNBC
CNBC World
ESPNews
FBN
Fusion
MétéoMédia
The Weather Channel
The Weather Network
WeatherNation TV








Oceania



ABC News channel
Sky News Live
TVNZ News 24




Specialty news



A-PAC
Fox Sports News Australia
Sky News Business Channel
Sky News Weather Channel








South America



América 24
BandNews TV
Cable Noticias
Canal i
C5N
Canal 26
Canal N
CNN International LA
Cultura y Noticias 23
CNC3
CNN Chile
Crónica TV
Ecuador TV 24
El Tiempo Televisión
Globovisión
GloboNews
NTN24
RPPTV
Record News
teleSUR
Todo Noticias
Canal 24 Horas




Specialty news



CNBC Latin America








Related topics



International broadcasting
Technical: Television receive-only
Direct-broadcast satellite television
Cable television
Pay television
Business channels
Television standards conversion












v
t
e


Panama Papers



Main topics



People
Reactions
Whistleblower
United States as a tax haven
Panama as a tax haven





Organizations under
investigation



Mossack Fonseca

Jürgen Mossack
Ramón Fonseca Mora







Heads of state or
government mentioned



Malcolm Turnbull
Mauricio Macri
Rafael Correa
Salman of Saudi Arabia
Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan
Petro Poroshenko
Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson





Former heads of state or
government mentioned



Bidzina Ivanishvili
Ayad Allawi
Silvio Berlusconi
Ali Abu al-Ragheb
Benazir Bhutto
Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani
Ion Sturza
Ahmed al-Mirghani
Hamad bin Jassim bin Jaber Al Thani
Pavlo Lazarenko
Ronald Reagan





Media



Süddeutsche Zeitung
International Consortium of Investigative Journalists
Paradise Papers








 Category
 Multimedia
 Quotes








Economics portal
Journalism portal
Politics portal






 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Fusion_TV&oldid=812438127"					
Categories: American television networksUnivisionFusion Media Group24-hour television news channels in the United States2013 establishments in the United StatesTelevision channels and stations established in 2013English-language television stations in the United States 
