GGAV Media Corporation - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search








This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages)







This article is an orphan, as no other articles link to it. Please introduce links to this page from related articles; try the Find link tool for suggestions. (December 2012)









This article does not cite any sources. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (January 2011) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)





(Learn how and when to remove this template message)



GGAV Media Corporation operates six television stations in the United States, with plans to add an additional 5 in the year 2011. It is owned and operated by David Udoh.



Contents


1 Types of programming
2 Stations broadcasting UTN
3 Expansion
4 References



Types of programming[edit]
The stations broadcast is a television network in the United States primarily serving African American viewers. Its program schedules primarily include comedy reviews, black-oriented entertainment journals, jazz music programs, rap video programs, sporting events, and news and public affair programs under the name UTN (Urban Television Network).
Stations broadcasting UTN[edit]

KVQT-LD-21, Houston, TX
KAOB-LD-27, Beaumont, TX
KYHT-LD-43, Lake Charles, LA
KLNK-LD-48, Lufkin, TX
KZSA-LP-43, San Angelo, TX
K48KW-LD-48, Victoria, TX

Expansion[edit]
UTN will be expanding into Dallas, Atlanta, Miami, New York and several other markets in 2011.
References[edit]





This United States media company article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.


v
t
e









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=GGAV_Media_Corporation&oldid=616879448"					
Categories: Television broadcasting companies of the United StatesUnited States media company stubsHidden categories: Orphaned articles from December 2012All orphaned articlesArticles lacking sources from January 2011All articles lacking sourcesAll stub articles 
