Good Witch (TV series) - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Good Witch





Genre



Dramedy
Fantasy





Based on
Characters created
by Rod Spence


Developed by



Craig Pryce
Sue Tenney





Starring



Catherine Bell
Bailee Madison
Rhys Matthew Bond
James Denton
Catherine Disher
Anthony Lemke
Peter MacNeill
Kylee Evans





Composer(s)
Jack Lenz


Country of origin



Canada
United States





Original language(s)
English


No. of seasons
3


No. of episodes
31 (list of episodes)


Production


Executive producer(s)



Catherine Bell
Orly Adelson
Jonathan Eskenas
Frank Siracusa
Craig Pryce
Sue Tenney





Location(s)
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada


Camera setup
Single-camera


Running time
48 minutes


Production company(s)
Whizbang Films


Distributor
ITV Studios


Release


Original network
Hallmark Channel


Picture format



480i (SDTV)
1080i (HDTV)





Original release
February 28, 2015 (2015-02-28) – present


Chronology


Related shows
The Good Witch (TV movie series)


External links


Hallmark website
www.hallmarkchannel.com/good-witch


Good Witch is an American/Canadian fantasy comedy-drama television series that is based on the made-for-TV movie series of the same name, produced by Whizbang Films in association with ITV Studios and the Hallmark Channel. Catherine Bell, who played Cassie Nightingale, the "Good Witch" in the movie series, both co-produces and stars in the series.[1]
Good Witch premiered on February 28, 2015, and has been renewed for a fourth season, slated to air in 2018,[2] with a two-hour Halloween special, titled Good Witch Spellbound, airing on October 22, 2017.



Contents


1 Series overview
2 Cast

2.1 Main
2.2 Recurring


3 Home media
4 References
5 External links



Series overview[edit]
Further information: List of Good Witch episodes


Season
Episodes
Originally aired


First aired
Last aired



1
8
February 28, 2015 (2015-02-28)
April 18, 2015 (2015-04-18)



Halloween/Something Wicked
October 24, 2015 (2015-10-24)



2
10
April 17, 2016 (2016-04-17)
June 19, 2016 (2016-06-19)



Secrets of Grey House
October 22, 2016 (2016-10-22)



3
10
April 30, 2017 (2017-04-30)
July 2, 2017 (2017-07-02)



Spellbound
October 22, 2017 (2017-10-22)


As with the previous seven TV movies, the series continues the spirited life of newly widowed Cassie Nightingale, the good-hearted enchantress of Middleton, USA, with her now-teenage daughter Grace. When new neighbors, the Radfords, move in next door, they become suspicious of Cassie and her daughter.
Cast[edit]
Main[edit]

Catherine Bell as Cassandra "Cassie" Nightingale: She is the owner of a shop called Bell, Book & Candle and runs a bed and breakfast at Grey House. In the first season, Cassie develops a friendship with Middleton's newest resident and neighbor, Sam Radford, and tries to move on from the loss of Jake with her long time friend, Ryan Elliot. However, both Cassie and Sam slowly begin to realize their romantic feelings for each other. Eventually, Cassie and Sam become a couple and by the end of the third season, they are engaged.
Bailee Madison as Grace Russell: Cassie's teenage daughter who has her own "intuitive charm". Grace meets Nick Radford, a new resident that has arrived in Middleton. She initially tries to ignore him but gradually becomes his friend, even though, occasionally, he gets her into trouble. In the second season, she tries to gain her driver's license and has Sam teach her, while she is struggling to move on from the loss of her father. In the third season, Grace briefly questions her true feelings for Nick, but later forms a relationship with his friend, Noah while she is struggling to accept the newfound romantic relationship between Cassie and Sam.
James Denton as Dr. Sam Radford: Cassie's curmudgeonly neighbor and the town's new doctor. He has a hard time adjusting to Middleton in the beginning, but slowly opens up to the town while also beginning a close friendship with Cassie. In the first season, he dates Stephanie, but they eventually break up as he slowly begins to realize his true feelings towards Cassie. Sam admits his feelings at the start of the second season and begins to pursue Cassie, but faces trouble due to Linda's interference and the arrival of Cassie's old friend John. In the beginning of the third season, Sam and Cassie become a couple and later become engaged after he proposes in the third-season finale.

Recurring[edit]

Rhys Matthew Bond as Nick Radford: Sam's troublesome son. Upon arriving in Middleton, he refuses to accept his new home and constantly wishes to go back to New York. In the first season, he repeatedly gets into trouble such as stealing a school statue or lying to his father. Eventually, Nick slowly begins to realize his mistakes while trying to form a friendship with Grace. In the second season, he becomes a nicer person and doesn't get into any trouble anymore, but still faces some problems within his family. In the third season, Nick begins a romantic relationship with Grace's friend, Courtney until in the season finale, he reveals his decision to break up, resulting in a falling out between him and Grace.
Dan Jeannotte as Brandon Russell: Cassie's stepson, who married Tara in the seventh movie and is a police officer like his father.
Noah Cappe as Derek Sanders: Middleton's chief of police, whom Mayor Martha Tinsdale appointed after Cassie's husband died.
Catherine Disher as Martha Tinsdale: the mayor of Middleton.
Peter MacNeill as George O'Hanrahan: the father-in-law of Cassie's late husband and grandfather of Brandon and Lori; Grace refers to him as "Grandpa" as well.
Kylee Evans as Stephanie Borden: the owner of a local bistro and a close friend of Cassie. She never wants to be single and becomes attracted to new men that arrive in town. In the first season, she is smitten with the new doctor, Sam and starts to pursue him. They briefly form a relationship, but eventually break up due to their differences and the slight interference of Abigail. In the second season, Stephanie works on starting a catering business while also beginning a new romantic relationship with local handyman Ben. Stephanie is also known to have a bad habit of making assumptions regarding romantic relationships such as believing that Cassie had romantic feelings for Ryan and John and later when she assumed that Nick had feelings for Grace.
Jefferson Brown as Ben who has a construction business and dates Stephanie.
Gabrielle Miller as Linda Wallace: Sam's ex-wife and Nick's mother. Linda moves to Middleton to be closer to Nick as she tries to get her family back together, including trying to reconcile with Sam. However, Linda begins to interfere in Sam's life, while being jealous of his close and growing relationship with Cassie and starts to come between them. She tries to have everything her own way and never seems to listen to others or accept responsibilities for her own mistakes or true motives. Eventually, Linda moves back to New York for career and to give Nick more space to grow.
Sarah Power as Abigail Pershing: Cassie's cousin. She has her own magical touch similar to Cassie, but uses it in her own way. Abigail is known to cause a bit of trouble to others, but they eventually help in the least expected way. Abigail originally worked for an Ad Agency in New York, but decided to leave to be closer to the family. Upon returning to Middleton, Abigail causes some problems such as helping Grace rebel and interfering in Stephanie and Sam's relationship. She begins working for Stephanie in the bistro, but in the beginning of the second season, she opens her own flower shop. In the third season, Abigail becomes jealous of Cassie and tries to learn of her own purpose of what she can bring to the community of Middleton.
Dan Payne as John Dover: Cassie's former college friend. He arrives in Middleton, during the second season, for a teaching job and renews his interest in dating her.
Paul Miller as Tom Tinsdale: Martha's husband. He was previously mayor of Middleton.
Hannah Endicott-Douglas as Lori Russell: Cassie's stepdaughter, who is now a writer.
Anthony Lemke as Ryan Elliot: a realtor and Cassie's friend, although he secretly harbors romantic feelings for her. Prior to the beginning of show, he was engaged, but his fiancée Annie instead married his former best friend, resulting in Ryan being deeply hurt and betrayed. Eventually, Ryan admits his feelings for Cassie and tries to begin a romantic relationship. They form a brief relationship but they break up as Ryan moves away to Chicago to begin a new job he received while Cassie begins to realize her true feelings for Sam. Season 1 only.
Shane Harte as Anthony: Grace's best friend. Season 1 only.

Home media[edit]
On October 13, 2015, Hallmark released the first season of Good Witch on DVD. Its packaging contains two discs.[3] On October 11, 2016, Hallmark released the second season of Good Witch on DVD. Its packaging contains three discs, including the Halloween special, "Good Witch Halloween".[4] The series is available internationally on Netflix.
References[edit]



^ Hallmark Channel's Good Witch Movies To Spawn Drama Series Starring Catherine Bell
^ "Hallmark Channel Conjures Up More Magic and Orders Season Four of Its Hit, Original, Primetime Series Good Witch" (PDF). Retrieved September 30, 2017. 
^ Lambert, David (August 21, 2015). "Good Witch - Cover Art is Conjured Up for 'Season 1' on DVD". tvshowsondvd.com. Retrieved October 12, 2015. 
^ Lambert, David (August 3, 2016). "Good Witch – Package Cover Art, Extras for 'Season 2' on DVD!". tvshowsondvd.com. Retrieved October 19, 2016. 



External links[edit]

Official website
Good Witch on IMDb







v
t
e


The Good Witch



Films



The Good Witch (2008)
The Good Witch's Garden (2009)
The Good Witch's Gift (2010)
The Good Witch's Family (2011)
The Good Witch's Charm (2012)
The Good Witch's Destiny (2013)
The Good Witch's Wonder (2014)





Television

Good Witch (episodes)










v
t
e


Hallmark Channel original programming



Original
programming




Former



Cedar Cove (2013–2015)
Signed, Sealed, Delivered (2014)





Current



Home and Family (since 2012)
When Calls the Heart (since 2014)
Good Witch (since 2015)
Chesapeake Shores (since 2016)








Related



List of Hallmark Channel Original Movies










 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Good_Witch_(TV_series)&oldid=811149335"					
Categories: 2010s American comedy television series2010s American drama television series2010s Canadian comedy television series2010s Canadian drama television series2015 American television series debutsAmerican comedy-drama television seriesAmerican fantasy television seriesCanadian comedy-drama television seriesCanadian fantasy television seriesFantasy television seriesHallmark Channel showsTelevision programs based on booksTelevision series by ITV StudiosTelevision shows set in the United StatesTelevision series produced in Hamilton, OntarioMagic in televisionWitchcraft in television 
