Holiday Pacific and Southern Tower - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search








This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages)







This article needs more links to other articles to help integrate it into the encyclopedia. Please help improve this article by adding links that are relevant to the context within the existing text. (May 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)









This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (December 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)





(Learn how and when to remove this template message)



The Holiday Pacific and Southern Tower was a 468.7 meters tall guyed mast for FM- and TV-broadcasting located in Holiday, Florida, United States at 28°11'5"N 82°45'37"W. It was built in 1979.
Site[edit]
The Holiday Pacific and Southern Tower was unusual in that it was situated in a residential area, surrounded by houses. Generally, the area around guyed masts is not developed into private residences, owing to the likelihood of incidental property damage from ice (rare at this latitude) or grease (from periodic maintenance of the guys) falling from the guys to the ground below. Another factor is that the high proximal intensity of radio and television transmissions can be a source of electromagnetic interference, affecting the electronic devices of nearby homeowners.
The Holiday Pacific and Southern Tower was dismantled in early 2012. All that remains is a Doppler radar station with two small buildings which track approaching storms coming off the Gulf of Mexico. All the property where the tower and support cables were located are now open fields maintained by Pasco county.
External links[edit]

Antenna Structure Registration

Coordinates: 28°11′5″N 82°45′37″W﻿ / ﻿28.18472°N 82.76028°W﻿ / 28.18472; -82.76028
See also[edit]

List of masts




This article about a guyed mast or radio tower in the United States is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.


v
t
e









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Holiday_Pacific_and_Southern_Tower&oldid=800169239"					
Categories: Towers in FloridaRadio masts and towers in the United StatesUnited States mast stubsHidden categories: Articles with too few wikilinks from May 2017All articles with too few wikilinksArticles covered by WikiProject Wikify from May 2017All articles covered by WikiProject WikifyArticles needing additional references from December 2016All articles needing additional referencesCoordinates on WikidataAll stub articles 
