Indigo Productions - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search


Indigo Productions





Type

Private


Industry
Video production


Founded
1990


Headquarters
New York N.Y.



Key people

Max Rosen


Website
https://www.indigoprod.com/


Indigo Productions, LLC is a video production and post-production company providing film, video and internet related production services in the United States of America.
Founded in 1990, the company is based in New York City, NY with most of its clients located in the United States. Indigo Productions' clients range from small operations to Fortune 500 companies, including J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. (JPM) and American Express (AXP).



Contents


1 Services
2 Viral Video Production
3 Video Production Education
4 References
5 External links



Services[edit]
Indigo Productions lists the following services on their website: video production, corporate video production, pre-production, post-production, video editing, viral video marketing, digital media, project management, and other services related to video production and marketing.
Viral Video Production[edit]
Indigo Productions gained worldwide recognition in 2009 with release of JK Divorce Entrance Dance, a spoof of a widely shared video JK Wedding Entrance Dance. Within the first week of release, the video went viral by reaching the 1,000,000 YouTube views mark. Among other acclaims, the video was named by Yahoo! Videos as #1 Funny Video of 2009 and #2 Viral Video of 2009, as well as #1 Most Watched Video in Asia. [1] As of 8 April, 2016 JK Divorce Entrance Dance has been viewed 11,268,370 times on YouTube and has received 27,503 thumbs up. [2]
Video Production Education[edit]
In 2009, Indigo Productions started a new program called University Connection designed to promote video production education at higher learning institutions in United States. As part of this program, Indigo Productions reached out to schools, such as NYU, CUNY and Columbia University, and secured various forms of cooperation, including internship positions, speaking engagements for the company's president Max Rosen, a viral video workshop at New York University, and a video production scholarship sponsored by Indigo Productions for which students had to submit a public service announcement video; submissions were evaluated based on merit and viral potential. Indigo Productions also produced videos for academic institutions, such as NYU Study Abroad program and 'Reading Counts' video for Scholastic.
References[edit]



^ Indigo Productions Blog - Video production blog
^ YouTube - Viral Video posted on Indigo Productions channel



External links[edit]

Indigo Productions
JK Divorce Entrance Dance on Internet Movie Database





 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Indigo_Productions&oldid=736175675"					
Categories: Film production companies of the United StatesTelevision production companies of the United StatesVideo production companiesMedia companies based in New York CityHidden categories: Pages using deprecated image syntax 
