International Director's Guild Awards - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search








This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages)







This article relies too much on references to primary sources. Please improve this by adding secondary or tertiary sources. (March 2010) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)









This article is an orphan, as no other articles link to it. Please introduce links to this page from related articles; try the Find link tool for suggestions. (March 2010)









This article contains content that is written like an advertisement. Please help improve it by removing promotional content and inappropriate external links, and by adding encyclopedic content written from a neutral point of view. (August 2010) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)





(Learn how and when to remove this template message)



International Director's Guild (IDG) Awards is a leading competition for video and filmmakers. The mission of the International Director's Guild Awards competition is to provide an opportunity for industry professionals as well as talented independent editors and students to be recognized for developing some of the most innovative video production and film productions being produced today.
The International Director's Guild Award is one of the most prestigious awards in the video and film community. Contestants compete against the best in the industry from across the entire globe. Entries are received from professionals and students both young and old. Entries are accepted and awards are given on a quarterly basis giving contestants frequent opportunities to be recognized. Categories include Documentary, Drama and Entertainment, Live Events, Promotion and Sales, Sports, Student Projects, TV News and Features, Television Commercials, Training and Education, and Weddings.
Judging is done by a distinguished Board of Directors. The Board of Directors features members that have average over 15 years of industry experience each. Members of the Board have experience producing around the globe for people in countries such as England, Scotland, Spain, Netherlands, United States, Canada, Mexico, Cyprus and more. Their experience comes in a wide range of fields within film and video production including producing, directing, shooting, editing, audio/video enhancement and distribution. This experience also runs the gamut of industry segments including live productions, entertainment, news, education, television commercials, short films, and more.
References[edit]


Production Hub - Video Competition Information
The Video Guru - Video Production Information Site

External links[edit]

International Director's Guild Awards (IDG Awards) Official Site





This film award–related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.


v
t
e









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=International_Director%27s_Guild_Awards&oldid=641394551"					
Categories: American film awardsRecurring events established in 2009American television awardsFilm award stubsHidden categories: Articles lacking reliable references from March 2010All articles lacking reliable referencesOrphaned articles from March 2010All orphaned articlesArticles with a promotional tone from August 2010All articles with a promotional toneAll stub articles 
