International Academy of Television Arts and Sciences - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search


International Academy of Television Arts & Sciences




Abbreviation
IATAS


Founded
1969; 48 years ago (1969)


Location



25 West 52nd Street
New York City, NY, 10019






Area served

International television industry


Product
International Emmy Awards



President

Bruce Paisner


Mission
Recognize excellence in television production produced outside the U.S.


Website
http://www.iemmys.tv/


The International Academy of Television Arts & Sciences was founded in 1969 to promote excellence in international television and is the organization that awards international Emmys to the best television programs produced outside the United States.[1]
Every November, The International Academy produces the International EMMY World Television Festival and International Emmy Awards Gala in New York City. The Festival screens the current year's International Emmy nominated programs with producers and directors in attendance.



Contents


1 History
2 Categories
3 See also
4 References
5 External links



History[edit]




Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff speaks during the opening of the International Academy Day 2015, an annual event created by the Academy held in the city of Rio de Janeiro.


The Academy is an organization of global broadcasters, with members from over 60 countries and over 500 companies. Sixty percent of the Board of Directors come from countries outside of the United States, and represents the world's largest production, distribution and broadcast companies. Was founded in 1969 to promote excellence in international television programming and is the organization that presents the International Emmy Awards to the best television programmes produced, and initially aired, outside the U.S. There are twenty program categories for the International Emmy Awards. The International Academy also recognizes US primetime programming produced 50% or more in non-English languages, with a new category added to the 2014 International Emmy Awards competition.[2] The awards are presented at the International Emmy Awards Gala, held each year in November at the Hilton Hotel, New York City, which attracts over 1,200 television professionals.
As well as the Gala, the International Academy also produces the International Emmy World Television Festival. The Television Festival screens the current year's International Emmy-nominated programs and features producers and directors who speak about their work.
The International Emmy Kids Awards were launched in 2013 and is held annually in February in New York City. The International Digital Emmy Awards take place at MIPTV every April in Cannes.
Categories[edit]


Arts Programming
Best Performance by an Actor
Best Performance by an Actress
Comedy
Documentary
Drama Series
Non-English Language U.S. Primetime Program
Non-Scripted Entertainment
Telenovela
TV Movie/Mini-Series
Current Affairs
News
Digital Program: Children & Young People
Digital Program: Fiction
Digital Program: Non-Fiction
Kids: Animation
Kids: Factual
Kids: Preschool
Kids: Non-Scripted Entertainment
Kids: Series
Kids: TV Movie/Mini-Series


The Academy's Foundation also presents the annual Sir Peter Ustinov Television Scriptwriting Award for young television writers. In 2013 J.J. Abrams was presented with an International Emmy Founders Award and Anke Schäferkordt was presented with an International Emmy Directorate Award.
Other notable winners include: Sir David Frost,[3] and Steven Spielberg.[4]
See also[edit]

List of International Emmy Award winners

References[edit]



^ Steve Boogar. "BoogarLists | Directory of Industry Associations". Retrieved 2015-03-30. 
^ "Telemundo’s ‘El Señor de los Cielos’ Wins First-Ever International Emmy for Non-English Language U.S. Primetime Program | TV By The Numbers by zap2it.com | Page 332190". tvbythenumbers.zap2it.com. Retrieved 2015-12-07. 
^ "Brits Dominate International Emmy Awards". The Daily Mail. 2009-11-24. Retrieved 2011-03-24. 
^ "British Shows Sweep World Emmys". BBC News. 2006-11-21. Retrieved 2011-03-24. 



External links[edit]

Official Website







v
t
e


International Emmy Awards categories



Program



Arts Programming
Comedy Series
Drama Series
Documentary
Non-English Language U.S. Primetime Program
Non-Scripted Entertainment
Short-Form Series
TV Movie or Miniseries
Telenovela





Acting



Best Actor
Best Actress





Current Affairs & News



Current Affairs
News





Kids



Kids: Preschool
Kids: Animation
Kids: Digital
Kids: Factual
Kids: Non-Scripted Entertainment
Kids: Series
Kids: TV Movie/Mini-Series





Digital



Digital Program: Children & Young People
Digital Program: Fiction
Digital Program: Non-Fiction





Special awards



Directorate Award
Founders Award





Others



JCSI Young Creatives Award
Pioneer Prize
Ustinov Scriptwriting Award










 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=International_Academy_of_Television_Arts_and_Sciences&oldid=795997568"					
Categories: Emmy AwardsInternational Emmy AwardsTelevision organizations in the United StatesOrganizations established in 1969International organizations based in the United States 
