Ivanhoe Broadcast News - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

For other uses, see Ivanhoe (disambiguation).

Ivanhoe Broadcast News, Inc., (IBN) is a United States-based syndicated television news-gathering organization. Ivanhoe provides TV stations with news segments that offer viewers solutions: latest breakthroughs in science and medicine, tips on staying healthy, and advice from women for women.
Ivanhoe Broadcast News got its start in 1982 as Ivanhoe Communications, founded by business partners Marjorie Bekaert Thomas and Bette BonFleur. Thomas, Ivanhoe's current publisher/president, is a graduate of Duke University and the University of Florida College of Law and began her career as an attorney. After 10 years of practicing law, she joined BonFleur, an executive news producer and writer of documentaries and medical news reports. BonFleur is now CEO emeritus.
IBN has a client base of more than 200 television network affiliates in the United States reaching 82 million television households.
It is headquartered in Winter Park, Florida, USA.



Contents


1 Ivanhoe.com
2 Ivanhoe's Current Syndicated Television News Series
3 Ivanhoe's Past Syndicated Television News Series
4 External links



Ivanhoe.com[edit]
Ivanhoe's Web site, Ivanhoe.com, was launched as "Ivanhoe's Medical Breakthroughs" in January 1996 as a logical extension of IBN's national television coverage. On the site is both news developed from the television news segments under the byline "Ivanhoe Broadcast News" and Web-only news under the byline "Ivanhoe Newswire."
Ivanhoe.com publishes two weekly e-zines announcing its most recent medical news published online, called the "First To Know Bulletin" and the "Ivanhoe Insider." These newsletters are both free of charge.
Ivanhoe's Current Syndicated Television News Series[edit]

Discoveries and Breakthroughs Inside Science
Medical Breakthroughs
Prescription: Health
Smart Woman

Ivanhoe's Past Syndicated Television News Series[edit]

Crackdown on Crime
Fit and Female
Parenting Power
Today's Breakthroughs, Tomorrow's Cures
Top of the Class

External links[edit]

Company Web Site





 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Ivanhoe_Broadcast_News&oldid=532037471"					
Categories: Television news in the United States 
