Jules Verne Award - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Jules Verne Award



The Jules Verne Award statuette.



Awarded for
Excellence in exploration, environmental and cinematic achievements


Country
France, United States


Presented by
Jules Verne Adventures


First awarded
1992


Website
www.julesverne.org


Created in 1992 by Jean-Christophe Jeauffre and Frédéric Dieudonné, the two founders of the Jules Verne Festival, the Jules Verne Awards are a set of awards given annually for excellence exploration, environmental and cinematic achievements. Organized and overseen by The Jules Verne Adventures organization,[1] the awards are given each year at a formal ceremony.
The awards were first given in 1992 at the first Jules Verne Film Festival, which took place at the Institut océanographique of Paris, France. The Jules Verne Awards are given in several categories.



Contents


1 Categories

1.1 Legendaire
1.2 Achievement
1.3 Best documentaries


2 Awards ceremonies
3 References



Categories[edit]
Legendaire[edit]
The Jules Verne Legendaire Awards celebrate legendary science fiction or adventure movies, TV series and stars. Among others, they have been given to: Star Wars Episode IV: A New Hope, The Empire Strikes Back, Blade Runner, Alfred Hitchcock's The Birds,[2] 2001: A Space Odyssey, The Wild Bunch,[3][4] Planet of the Apes, Smallville, Heroes, Lost, Battlestar Galactica,[5] Stargate SG-1, John Wayne,[6] Steve McQueen,[7] Tony Curtis,[8] Ernest Borgnine, Mark Hamill, Sir Christopher Lee, etc. The Jules Verne Legendaire Awards celebrations invite the Stars and the public to once in a lifetime stage reunions of the original cast and crews.
Achievement[edit]
The Jules Verne Achievement Awards distinguish artists, explorers, filmmakers, movie and TV actors and celebrities who have encouraged the spirit of adventure and imagination, as well as open-mindedness through their talent, work and persistence. Dame Jane Goodall, George Lucas,[9] James Cameron, Jacques-Yves Cousteau, Buzz Aldrin, Christopher Reeve, Harrison Ford, Tippi Hedren, Larry Hagman,[10] Omar Sharif and Ray Bradbury rank among the recipients of the Jules Verne 'Achievement' Award.
Best documentaries[edit]
The Jules Verne Awards for best documentaries go to the best exploration, adventure, environment and discovery documentaries of the year.
Awards ceremonies[edit]
The following is a listing of some Jules Verne Awards ceremonies and recipients.



Ceremony
Year
Recipient(s)
Movie(s) or TV series celebrated
Venue


1st Jules Verne Awards
1992
Jacques-Yves Cousteau
The Silent World
Institut océanographique, Paris


2nd Jules Verne Awards
1993
Alain Bombard
—
Institut océanographique, Paris


3rd Jules Verne Awards
1994
Paul-Émile Victor
—
Institut océanographique, Paris


4th Jules Verne Awards
1995
Éric Tabarly
—
Institut océanographique, Paris


5th Jules Verne Awards
1996
Michel Navratil, Jr
—
Institut océanographique, Paris


6th Jules Verne Awards
1997
Pierre Schoendoerffer
Le Crabe-tambour
Institut océanographique, Paris


7th Jules Verne Awards
1998
Christiane Desroches Noblecourt, Jacques Piccard
—
Institut océanographique, Paris


8th Jules Verne Awards
1999
Ray Harryhausen, Kirk Douglas, Bertrand Piccard
—
Institut océanographique, Paris


9th Jules Verne Awards
2000
Patrick Wayne, the Blackfoot Confederacy, John Scott (composer)
—
Institut océanographique, Paris


10th Jules Verne Awards
2001
Thor Heyerdahl, Charlotte Rampling
—
Institut océanographique, Paris


11th Jules Verne Awards
2002
Jean-Pierre Jeunet
—
Institut océanographique, Paris


12th Jules Verne Awards
2004
James Cameron, Christopher Reeve, Dame Jane Goodall
Titanic, Ghosts of the Abyss, Expedition: Bismarck
Le Grand Rex


13th Jules Verne Awards
2005
Tony Curtis, Omar Sharif, Allison Mack, Erica Durance, Jeph Loeb
Star Wars Episode IV: A New Hope, Aliens of the Deep, Smallville
Le Grand Rex


14th Jules Verne Awards
2006
Sir Christopher Lee, Ernest Borgnine, Paul Walker, Frank Marshall, George Lucas, Harrison Ford
Eight Below[11]
Le Grand Rex, Shrine Auditorium


15th Jules Verne Awards
2007
Claude Lelouch, Lalo Schifrin, Sir Patrick Stewart, Tim Kring, Zachary Quinto, Ted Turner, Stan Lee, Tippi Hedren, William Shatner, Ray Bradbury, Buzz Aldrin
Star Trek: The Original Series, Blade Runner, Heroes
Le Grand Rex, Shrine Auditorium, Los Angeles Theatre


16th Jules Verne Awards
2008
Louis de Funès, Robert Hossein, Roy E. Disney, Ron Moore
Planet of the Apes, 2001: A Space Odyssey, The Birds, Battlestar Galactica
Le Grand Rex, The Edison


17th Jules Verne Awards
2009
Gérard Depardieu, Damon Lindelof, Carlton Cuse, Sam Peckinpah, Jerry Fielding, Ernest Borgnine, Mary McDonnell, Jamie Bamber, James Callis
Star Trek (film), Coraline, Battlestar Galactica, The Wild Bunch, Some Like It Hot, Lost
Le Grand Rex, Million Dollar Theater


18th Jules Verne Awards
2010
Mark Hamill, George Lucas, Steve McQueen
The Empire Strikes Back, Bullitt
Le Grand Rex, Cinerama Dome


19th Jules Verne Awards
2011
John Wayne
True Grit
Cinerama Dome


20th Jules Verne Awards
2012
Richard Dean Anderson, Amanda Tapping, Jacques Perrin, David Newman (composer)
Stargate SG-1
Le Grand Rex


Ceremony
Year
Recipient(s)
Movie(s) or TV series celebrated
Venue


References[edit]



^ "The Jules Verne Awards: Celebrating Legendary Movies and People". 
^ Gonzaga, Peter (September 29, 2008). "On September 14, 2008. The Jules Verne Festival celebrated the 45th Anniversary of Alfred Hitchcock's "The Birds" with Tippi Hedren as the celebrated guest". Eye on Red Carpets. 
^ King, Susan (November 11, 2009). ""The Wild Bunch" is riding into town for a special 40th-anniversary screening Thursday at the venerable Million Dollar Theater in downtown L.A. Jean-Christophe Jeauffre and Frederic Dieudonne, founders of the Jules Verne Festival, are presenting the screening, with all proceeds going to the Jules Verne Nature & Education Program". LA Times. 
^ ""We will reassemble the cast and crew of the movie… as well as other celebrities that are connected somehow to Peckinpah's work, like actors that played in other movies he made," said Jules Verne Festival director Frédéric Dieudonné". The Los Angeles Downtown News. November 6, 2009. 
^ Boucher, Geoff (October 20, 2008). "Adama himself, Edward James Olmos, will be a special guest at a tribute to Ron Moore, the creative force behind "Battlestar Galactica," the soon-to-be-concluded series on Sci Fi. Saturday, 7 p.m., The Edison". LA Times. 
^ Alysia Gray Painter (November 7, 2011). "The Jules Verne Festival night is selling out; the star's son Patrick will appear". NBC Los Angeles. 
^ King, Susan (November 8, 2010). "On Thursday, the Jules Verne Festival is paying tribute to Steve McQueen at the Cinerama Dome. The late actor's son, Chad, will accept the Jules Verne Legendaire Award from the festival's founders, Jean-Christophe Jeauffre and Frederic Dieudonne". LA Times. 
^ King, Susan (June 10, 2009). "Curtis is leaving Las Vegas this week and visiting Los Angeles for "The Magic of Tony Curtis" Saturday at the venerable Million Dollar Theater in downtown Los Angeles. Presented by the Jules Verne Festival and the Los Angeles Historical Theater Foundation, the festivities include a matinee screening of Curtis' 1953 hit "Houdini," with escape artist Curtis Lovell II attempting the legendary magician's water torture stunt, and a 50th anniversary screening that evening of "Some Like It Hot"". LA Times. 
^ Sneider, Jeff (October 11, 2006). "Jeauffre bills the fest, which is celebrating its fifth year in France, as "the ultimate event to explore and preserve our planet" and "a love letter from the French to the American people."". Variety. 
^ Vartanian, Henrick (August 13, 2010). "Jules Verne Festival founders, Jean-Christophe Jeauffre and Frédéric Dieudonné explain: "Our aim is to foster a culture of sustainability in a rarely reached yet important new audience in a fun and entertaining way."". Brave New Hollywood. 
^ Nesselson, Lisa (April 2, 2002). ""Amateur night" might describe most French premieres and awards ceremonies, but the Jules Verne folks know from showmanship: An impressive replica of Indiana Jones' Temple of Doom welcomed producer-turned-director Frank Marshall, there to show "Eight Below" complete with live huskies and pic's star, Paul Walker". Variety. 







 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Jules_Verne_Award&oldid=725474023"					
Categories: American film awardsFrench film awardsAmerican television awardsFrench television awards 
