Library of American Broadcasting - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search





Murals commissioned by Broadcasting magazine in 1945 are part of the Library of American Broadcasting collection. The artist is W.B. McGill.


The Library of American Broadcasting (LAB) – a Washington, D.C. institution since 1972 – began life as the Broadcast Pioneers Library in space donated by the National Association of Broadcasters. The collection was thought up by William S. Hedges, a retired NBC executive, who created the Broadcasting Pioneers History Project in 1964 and began collecting historical materials. The Library expanded rapidly for twenty years, but as space and funding became increasingly scarce, the Library's governing board decided to seek another setting for the collection. They chose the University of Maryland, and in October 1994, LAB moved to its new location.[1]
Now housed in the Broadcasting Archives at the University of Maryland,[2] the Library of American Broadcasting is a wide-ranging collection of audio/video recordings, books, pamphlets, periodicals, personal collections, photographs, scripts, and vertical files devoted exclusively to the history of broadcasting.[3] LAB holds many collections of note, including the papers of Sol Taishoff, founder of the influential industry publication Broadcasting;[3] the papers of Helen J. Sioussat, director of the Talks Department at CBS (1937–58);[4] the scrapbooks of Edward J. Kirby, chief of the radio branch of the War Department in World War II;[5] and the papers of Edythe Meserand, radio executive and first President of the American Women in Radio and Television, among others.[3]
The Library of American Broadcasting received onscreen credit for research materials provided to the producers of the film Good Night and Good Luck (2005). The holdings of the LAB yielded photographs of Murrow, as well as a number of shots of the CBS studios and offices of that era. These were instrumental in creating the period detail of the film, which received a total of six Academy Award nominations, one of which was for Art Direction.[6]
References[edit]



^ Murray, Michael D. (1999). Encyclopedia of television news. Greenwood Publishing Group. pp. 133–34. Retrieved February 27, 2012. 
^ Enriquez, Elizabeth L. (2008). Appropriation of colonial broadcasting: a history of early radio in the Philippines, 1922-1946. UP Press. p. 25. Retrieved February 27, 2012. 
^ a b c Stephenson, Alan; Reese, David; Beadle, Mary (2009). Broadcast Announcing Worktext: A Media Performance Guide. Focal Press. p. 11. Retrieved February 27, 2012. 
^ Petersen, Julie K. (2002). The telecommunications illustrated dictionary. CRC Press. p. 849. Retrieved February 27, 2012. 
^ Havighurst, Craig (2007). Air castle of the South: WSM and the making of Music City. University of Illinois Press. p. 253. Retrieved February 27, 2012. 
^ University of Maryland (October 11, 2005). "Maryland Remembers Edward R. Murrow". Newswise. Retrieved February 27, 2012. 



Further reading[edit]

The Broadcast Pioneers Library. Updated ed. of ... [the] tenth anniversary brochure. Washington, D.C.: Broadcast Pioneers Library, 1985.

External links[edit]

Keeping the Past for the Future (PDF)
"About Us: Library of American Broadcasting". University of Maryland Libraries. Retrieved 5 September 2013. 
Library of American Broadcasting Foundation website







v
t
e


University of Maryland, College Park




Located in: College Park, Maryland



Academics



A. James Clark School of Engineering
College of Agriculture and Natural Resources
School of Architecture, Planning, and Preservation
College of Arts and Humanities
College of Behavioral and Social Sciences
College of Computer, Mathematical, and Natural Sciences
College of Education
College of Information Studies
Philip Merrill College of Journalism
Robert H. Smith School of Business
School of Music
School of Public Health
School of Public Policy
QUEST Honors Fellows
College Park Scholars
Honors College








Athletics



Teams
Baseball
Field hockey
Football
Men's basketball
Men's lacrosse
Men's soccer
Women's basketball
Women's lacrosse
Women's volleyball


Facilities
Xfinity Center
Maryland Stadium
Cole Field House
Shipley Field
Ludwig Field
Golf Course
Taylor Stadium
Ritchie Coliseum
Old Byrd Stadium


Rivalries
Duke
Johns Hopkins
Navy
Penn State
Virginia
West Virginia


University of Maryland Athletic Hall of Fame
Midnight Madness





Campus



Landmarks
Adele H. Stamp Student Union
"M" Circle
McKeldin Mall
Memorial Chapel
Morrill Hall
The Rossborough Inn


Arts and recreation
Arboretum & Botanical Garden
The Art Gallery
Clarice Smith Performing Arts Center
Observatory
Tawes Theatre


Facilities
Libraries
Security Operations Center


Transportation
Shuttle-UM
College Park–University of Maryland Station





People



Alumni
Faculty
Benefactors
Presidents





Student life



Student groups
List of student organizations
Greek life
Mighty Sound of Maryland
Monarchy Party
Media
Capital News Service
The Diamondback
UMTV
WMUC-FM








Founded: 1856










This Washington, D.C. related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.


v
t
e









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Library_of_American_Broadcasting&oldid=744941294"					
Categories: Libraries in Washington, D.C.Television archives in the United StatesHistory of broadcastingUniversity of Maryland, College ParkWashington, D.C. stubsHidden categories: Washington, D.C. articles missing geocoordinate dataAll articles needing coordinatesAll stub articles 
