List of anime in the United States - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

These anime series have been shown and have achieved varying levels of popularity in the United States and Canada, this is contributed to the era known as the "anime boom" which lasted from the mid-1990s to mid-2000s. In the United States, most anime can be seen televised on channels, with channels such as Adult Swim's Toonami block, and Toku airing anime targeted toward young adults to adult audiences, and with channels such as Disney XD, and Nicktoons airing anime targeted toward children audiences. Anime can also be viewed online legally on streaming websites such as Anime Network, Funimation 's FunimationNow platform, Crunchyroll, Netflix, Crackle, YouTube and Hulu.



Contents


1 1960s
2 1970s
3 1980s
4 1990s
5 2000s
6 2010s
7 2020s



1960s[edit]
In the 1960s, Astro Boy, Speed Racer and Kimba the White Lion were introduced to the U.S. and received positively.


Astro Boy
Gigantor
Kimba the White Lion
Speed Racer
The Amazing 3
Marine Boy
8 Man
Prince Planet
Space Ace
Alakazam the Great
Panda and the Magic Serpent
Magic Boy
A Thousand and One Nights
Onward Leo
The Wonderful World of Puss 'n Boots
The Great Adventure of Horus, Prince of the Sun


1970s[edit]

Star Blazers (adaptation of Space Battleship Yamato)
Battle of the Planets (adaptation of Science Ninja Team Gatchaman)
Space Pirate Captain Harlock (English sub only)
Lupin III: Mystery of Mamo (Original 1970s English dub by Toho created for international flights. Received multiple new dubs in later years from various companies. Notable for being one of the earliest anime feature films to be released in English.)
Jack and the Beanstalk (1974 film by Gisaburo Sugii) - 1976 dubbed version aired on HBO.
Cleopatra (1970 film)
Princess Knight
Little Lulu and Her Little Friends (Dubbed in 1978)

1980s[edit]
Basic cable provided a frequent broadcast outlet for juvenile-targeted anime during the 1980s, in particular Nickelodeon and CBN Cable (now Freeform. In the early 1980s, CBN Cable aired an English dub of the Christian-themed anime series Superbook and The Flying House, as well as the girls' drama series Honey Honey and an uncut, Hawaiian-dubbed version of Go Nagai's Super Robot series Mazinger Z (aired as part of a Japan-focused public-affairs show). In the late 1980s, after the station had been renamed The Family Channel, it would also air dubs of Wowser and Nippon Animation's World Masterpiece Theater version of Swiss Family Robinson Nickelodeon aired anime such as Mysterious Cities of Gold and Belle and Sebastian, and anime also later formed a major component of the network's Nick Jr. block, including Maple Town, Adventures of the Little Koala, Noozles, Maya the Bee, The Littl' Bits, and Grimm's Fairy Tale Classics. Premium channels also aired anime on occasion: HBO broadcast numerous anime television series based on Western literature, including Gisaburo Sugii's Jack and the Beanstalk and the World Masterpiece Theater versions of Little Women and Tom Sawyer, and Osamu Tezuka's Unico features aired on The Disney Channel.
In 1981, Roger Corman wrote an English dub of the first Galaxy Express movie Bonjour Galaxy Express 999, shortened the name to Galaxy Express, and aired it on television. The dub changed some of the original Japanese names into more recognizable American names for example: Tetsuro is now Joey and Harlock is now Warlock. Roger Corman also edited out 30 minutes of footage, and Antonia Levi, the author of "Samurai from Outer Space" said that Roger Corman's dub was "Highly edited and too damaged to watch". Faring equally poorly was Corman's 1984 edit of Hayao Miyazaki's Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind, released theatrically as Warriors of the Wind; this dub is said to have so displeased Miyazaki that he would insist that all future American releases of his work be unedited.
In 1983, Stern Electronics released a game to arcades called Cliff Hanger and contains footage from The Castle of Cagliostro and The Mystery of Mamo.
In the mid-1980s super robot and space opera anime was very popular, series such as Voltron, Transformers and Robotech were successful in ratings and also commercial successes through selling merchandise. Faring less well was Mazinger Z, aired in syndication in 1985 in a heavily edited dubbed version (not the Toei-commissioned dub previously broadcast on CBN) titled TranZor Z.
Faring even less well was the first American release of Akira Toriyama's Dragon Ball in 1989. Harmony Gold produced a partial dub of the first five TV episodes and two movies (The Curse of the Blood Rubies and The Mystical Adventure) which were edited into an 80-minute film. The dubs were syndicated across America to independent television stations such as WPSG Philly 57 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and WGPR-TV in Detroit, Michigan, but failed to find an audience.
In 1988 and 1989, the Bubblegum Crisis OVA series was one of the earliest fan subs and AnimEigo later got the license to the OVA's and dub the series.
In 1988, Streamline Pictures became one of the first companies dedicated solely to anime dubs, most notably dubbed versions of Twilight of the Cockroaches and of three more Miyazaki films: My Neighbor Totoro and Kiki's Delivery Service, both released initially as in-flight entertainment for Japan Airlines passengers traveling from North America to Japan, and Castle in the Sky. The Totoro dub would eventually be released theatrically and commercially in the United States in 1993, and all three movies would later be redubbed by the Walt Disney Company as part of the company's deal with Studio Ghibli.
Lensman: Secret of The Lens was first dubbed by Harmony Gold in 1988, and then Streamline Pictures re-dubbed it in 1990, and some of the voice actors voiced in both dubs. The film was based on the Lensman novels by E. E. Smith. Also, the Harmony Gold dub actually used remastered music and some music tracks came out of their previous movies Robotech II: The Sentinels and Robotech The Movie: The Untold Story, while the Streamline Pictures dub used the original Japanese soundtrack.
In 1988, AnimEigo just started after Streamline Pictures and had the slogan "Anime in your way!". Their first anime they dubbed is Metal Skin Panic MADOX-01, which was renamed MADOX-01 for the UK release in 1995, was only released on to VHS in 1989, due to content not suitable for television or theatrical release. They also dubbed the 4 episode OVA Vampire Princess Miyu in the same year, which was later adapted into a 26 episode TV series by Tokyopop, later by Maiden Japan in 1997.
In the mid to late 80s, anime films like: Akira, My Neighbor Totoro, Warriors of the Wind, Castle in the Sky, Kiki's Delivery Service, Metal Skin Panic MADOX-01, etc. Were dubbed by companies like: MGM, Streamline Pictures, Harmony Gold, Fox, New World Pictures, AnimEigo, etc. Even though these films weren't really successful at the time, due to limited release, but they did get positive reviews by critics and Akira even got a cult following, although most of these films they did get higher quality dubs later on.
A list of anime distributed in the U.S. during the 1980s includes:


Akira
Adventures of the Little Koala
The Adventures of the Little Prince
Angel
Belle and Sebastian
Captain Harlock and the Queen of a Thousand Years (combined adaptation of Captain Harlock and Queen Millennia)
Dr. Slump - never dubbed; English subtitled version aired in Hawaii
Dragon Ball
The Flying House
Force Five (combined adaptation of Gaiking, Dangard Ace, Starvengers, Grandizer, Spaceketeers)
Galactic Patrol Lensman / Lensman: Power of The Lens
Galaxy Express 999
Grimm's Fairy Tale Classics
Honey Honey
Little Women
Maple Town
Maya the Bee
Mazinger Z - aired in unedited dub form on CBN Cable in the early 1980s and later in edited form in syndication (1985) under the title TranZor Z
Mysterious Cities of Gold
Noozles
Robby the Rascal
Robotech (combined adaptation of Super Dimension Fortress Macross, Super Dimension Cavalry Southern Cross, and Genesis Climber Mospeada)
Saber Rider and the Star Sheriffs (adaptation of Bismarck)
Superbook
Swiss Family Robinson
Tekkaman: The Space Knight
Thunderbirds 2086
Time Fighters in the Land of Fantasy
Tom Sawyer
Unico
Vampire Princess Miyu
Voltron (combined adaptation of Go Lion and Dairugger XV)
Warriors of the Wind
Wowser
Magical Princess Minky Momo / Gigi and the Fountain of Youth
The Wonderful Wizard of Oz (1986 TV series)


1990s[edit]
The 1990s, was the period in which anime reached mainstream popularity in the U.S. market and the terms "anime" and "manga" became commonly well known (ultimately replacing the former majorly known term "Japanimation"). Companies such as FUNimation Productions, Bandai Entertainment, 4Kids Entertainment, Central Park Media, Media Blasters, Saban Entertainment, Viz Video, Pioneer LDC and ADV Films began licensing anime in the United States.
The first anime in the US in the 1990s, was Dragon Quest or Dragon Warrior, based on the video game series with the same name, aired in 1989 in Japan and 1990 in the US by Saban Entertainment. The show was created by Akira Toriyama, the same person who made the Dragon Ball series. The show didn't do too well in the US and didn't get a release to home video.
Saban Entertainment later dubbed the 1990 anime Kyatto Ninden Teyandee, changed the name to Samurai Pizza Cats, and aired it on ABC in 1991. In 2002, Saban Entertainment rights to the show expired, then Discotek Media obtained the rights and still owns the rights to the series to this day.
Viz which was already successful with its manga translation of Rumiko Takahashi's Ranma ½, bought the rights to the anime and released it via direct-to-video starting in 1994. Ranma ½ enjoyed success in the VHS market and was the first anime title in the 1990s to have this level of success and one of the first titles to be recognized as an "anime". Viz also began publishing a magazine called Animerica in the 1990s which featured manga as well as articles on Japanese culture, fashion, manga, anime and video games, this helped spread the otaku subculture to Americans. Fansubs were also popular during this period.
DiC (then-owned by Disney) and Funimation (with the help of Saban and Ocean Studios) licensed Sailor Moon (1995) and Dragon Ball Z (1996) respectively and both were televised in the U.S. through early morning syndication. Since the two anime were very successful internationally, they were purchased to capitalize on the success of superhero shows like Power Rangers (The very popular Americanized version of the tokusatsu series Super Sentai) and Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. Power Rangers ratings overthrew both Anime and Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. Power Rangers is the most popular and longest running boys action series.
In the summer of 1998, Cartoon Network which had an action-themed evening block named Toonami began airing Sailor Moon and Dragon Ball Z both became overwhelmingly successful with younger audiences (being that they were aired in the evening hours which children were home) and as a result both got revived: receiving new dubs with significantly less editing being that these episodes were on cable television and with the recent inception of television rating system (both were rated TV-Y7-FV), the standards were relaxed. Voltron, Robotech and Ronin Warriors also enjoyed renewed success on Toonami. Toonami would still continue to air anime and is credited with beginning the era of anime boom in the United States in the late 1990s and early 2000s.
In 1997, the most Influential Controversial popular series was Neon Genesis Evangelion was released on VHS uncut by ADV Films and in 2002, both the films End of Evangelion and Evangelion: Death and Rebirth were both released in the U.S. by Manga Entertainment. Evangelion grew to have a large fan base in the United States and is famed for its combining of the mecha genre with various aspects of philosophy, psychology, religious imagery, mental illnesses and shock horror elements.
In 1998, Pokémon was introduced to U.S. and it became a ratings hit, a pop culture phenomenon and monumental commercial success through its merchandising (trading cards, VHS, toys, video games etc.). Digimon was introduced in 1999; although it was a success, it did not reach the same level of popularity as Pokémon.
Sci Fi Channel also aired many experimental, avant-garde, action, horror and science fiction anime films and series during the 1990s during the late night and early morning hours and still continued to do so up until 2011. Ghost in the Shell, Ninja Scroll, Akira, Street Fighter II: The Animated Movie, and Urusei Yatsura 2: Beautiful Dreamer are among the films that have aired. Series such as Gurren Lagann, Crest of the Stars, Gundam 00, Casshan: Robot Hunter, Record of Lodoss War, Iria: Zeiram the Animation, Rave Master, Tokko, Chrono Crusade and Fist of the North Star have also aired. In Northern California, KTEH-TV in San Jose became famous locally for being one of the few PBS outlets to air anime, in both dubbed and subtitled versions.
In 1998, Disney's Miramax released the anime film Princess Mononoke in the U.S. theatrically, though it was not a great success at the box office (it did much better on DVD releases) it began the relationship between Disney and Studio Ghibli to distribute the latter's films in the U.S.


The Genie Family (Made in English but never aired in America)
One Piece
Cowboy Bebop
Neon Genesis Evangelion
Zillion (anime)
Dragon Quest (TV series) / Dragon Warrior
Samurai Pizza Cats
Arc the Lad
Gatchaman
Genocyber
Genesis Survivor Gaiarth
Pokémon
Digimon Adventure
Fist of the North Star
Sailor Moon (last season Sailor Stars aired in Japan but was never dubbed)
Super Pig / Super Boink
Dragon Ball
Dragon Ball Z
The Littl' Bits
Revolutionary Girl Utena
Cardcaptors
Outlaw Star
Ranma ½
Urusei Yatsura (subtitled episodes broadcast on KTEH-TV, San Jose)
Maison Ikkoku
Tenchi Muyo!
Tenchi Universe
The Slayers
The Vision of Escaflowne
Fushigi Yuugi
The Genie Family / Bob in a Bottle
Bubblegum Crisis: Tokyo 2040
Tekkaman Blade / Teknoman
Please Save My Earth
Monkey Magic
Patlabor
Crayon Shin-chan / Shin-chan
Ronin Warriors
Nazca
The Castle of Cagliostro


2000s[edit]
In 2002, Spirited Away was released through Disney theatrically and was successful enough to be the first anime film to be nominated for and win an Academy Award.
In the 2000s even after the popular series Dragon Ball Z and Sailor Moon ended their runs, Toonami still continued to air popular anime such as Gundam Wing, which is credited for single-handedly popularizing the Gundam franchise in the west, Dragon Ball, Dragon Ball GT, Rurouni Kenshin,Yu Yu Hakusho, .hack, Cardcaptors, Tenchi Muyo!, Tenchi Universe, Tenchi in Tokyo, The 08th MS Team, One Piece, Gundam SEED, Astro Boy, SD Gundam, Cyborg 009, IGPX, Bobobo-Bobo-Bobo, Outlaw Star, Hamtaro and Naruto. Naruto was very successful on Toonami and remains of the most popular anime titles in U.S. In 2008, Toonami was discontinued and anime began airing exclusively on Adult Swim, the late night counterpart to Cartoon Network.
The block Adult Swim began airing on Cartoon Network in 2001, its first anime title aired was Cowboy Bebop. Cowboy Bebop was very successful and remains the longest aired anime series on Adult Swim. Adult Swim also aired series including uncut episodes of Gundam Wing, Fullmetal Alchemist, InuYasha, Outlaw Star, Pilot Candidate, Paranoia Agent, Samurai Champloo, Death Note, s-CRY-ed, Eureka Seven, Ghost in the Shell, FLCL, Neon Genesis Evangelion, Case Closed, Lupin III, Blue Gender, Code Geass, Bleach, Blood+, Trinity Blood, Shin Chan, Wolf's Rain, Moribito and Trigun. Adult Swim mostly airs anime under the title "Action" even though Shin Chan and Super Milk Chan are comedies. Adult Swim became so successful over the years that Turner Broadcasting split it from Cartoon Network & is now ranked as an independent network.
Due to the popularity of Dragon Ball Z, Funimation would continue to dominate the anime distribution in the United States and continued licensing several popular titles such as Yu Yu Hakusho, Case Closed, Blue Gender, Fruits Basket, Black Cat, Ouran High School Host Club, Kodocha, One Piece, Kenichi: The Mightiest Disciple, Trinity Blood, Fullmetal Alchemist, Tsubasa: Reservoir Chronicle and Shin Chan and launched its own channel Funimation Channel to exclusively carry most of its titles. Funimation would also rescue rights to titles when if its licensor discontinued, such the case with ADV Films (which closed in 2008) and Geneon (which closed in 2007).
After the success of Pokémon in the late 1990s, 4Kids Entertainment continue to license anime titles and target them towards children such as the Yu-Gi-Oh! franchise, Sonic X, Magical DoReMi, Mew Mew Power, Shaman King, Kirby Right Back At Ya!, Dinosaur King and Ultimate Muscle. However 4Kids was met with much controversy for its use of "Americanization" and heavy editing of content, particularly with its dub of Yu-Gi-Oh! and One Piece.


Lupin the Third Part II (aired on Adult Swim in 2003)
Sekirei
Magikano
Ai Yori Aoshi
Queen's Blade
Desert Punk
Spice and Wolf
Welcome to the N.H.K.
Rumbling Hearts
Full Metal Panic
My Bride is a Mermaid
Shuffle!
Moon Phase
Burst Angel
Shattered Angels
Paniponi Dash
Sasami: Magical Girls Club
Ragnarok the Animation
Negima!
Peach Girl
School Rumble
Vampire Knight
Suzuka
Toriko
Nana
Mamotte! Lollipop
xxxHolic
Cardcaptor Sakura
Onegai Teacher
Tsubasa: Reservoir Chronicle
Angelic Layer
Black Cat
Digimon Adventure 02
Digimon Tamers
Digimon Frontier
Ouran High School Host Club
Fruits Basket
Darker than Black
Lost Universe
Kodomo no Omocha
Detective Conan (title changed to Case Closed for copyright issues with the comic book series Conan)
His and Her Circumstances
Android Kikaider: The Animation
Slayers TRY
Rurouni Kenshin
InuYasha
Love Hina
s-CRY-ed
Chobits
Fullmetal Alchemist
.hack
Hamtaro
Azumanga Daioh
Doki Doki School Hours
Ghost in the Shell: Stand Alone Complex
Ghost in the Shell: SAC 2nd GIG
FLCL
Samurai Champloo
Darker Than Black
New Mobile Report Gundam Wing
Mobile Fighter G Gundam
SD Gundam
Mobile Suit Gundam Seed
Mobile Suit Gundam Seed Destiny
Mobile Suit Gundam 00
Mobile Suit Gundam: The 08th MS Team
Mobile Suit Gundam
Mobile Suit Gundam F91
Mobile Suit Zeta Gundam
Cyborg 009
Naruto
Zatch Bell
Tenchi Universe
Tenchi in Tokyo
Tenchi Muyo! GXP
Eureka Seven
Trinity Blood
Crest of the Stars
Silent Mobius
Dual! Parallel Trouble Adventure
Boogiepop Phantom
Banner of the Stars
Geneshaft
UFO Ultramaiden Valkyrie
Last Exile
The Soul Taker
Armitage III
Gate Keepers
Read or Die
Gad Guard
Lucky Star
The Melancholy of Haruhi Suzumiya
Magical Shopping Arcade Abenobashi
Bleach'
Prince of Tennis
Code Geass: Lelouch of the Rebellion
Death Note
Gungrave
Trigun
Devil May Cry
Wolf's Rain
Mirage of Blaze
Samurai Deeper Kyo
Blood +
Bakugan Battle Brawlers
Fighting Foodons
Shinzo
Mega Man Star Force
Mega Man NT Warrior
Zoids: Chaotic Century
Zoids: New Century Zero
Zoids: Fuzors
Rave Master
Bobobo-bo Bo-bobo
Gokusen
The Big O
Witchblade
D.Gray-man
Monster Rancher
Medabots
Mon Colle Knights
YuYu Hakusho
Great Teacher Onizuka
Duel Masters
Dinozaurs
Yu-Gi-Oh! Capsule Monsters
Yu-Gi-Oh! GX
Yu-Gi-Oh! 5D's
MÄR
Spider Riders
Dinosaur King
Pokémon Chronicles
Beyblade
Beyblade V-Force
Beyblade G-Revolution
Kirby: Right Back at Ya!
Viewtiful Joe
Nerima Daikon Brothers
Ultimate Muscle
Sonic X
Tokyo Mew Mew
Elfen Lied
Tokyo Underground
Immortal Grand Prix
Excel Saga
Puni Puni Poemy
The Wallflower
Tayutama
Area 88
Angelic Layer
Eyeshield 21
Buso Renkin
Gals!
Hikaru no Go
Kiba
Best Student Council
Chance Pop Session
Ojamajo Doremi
Divergence Eve
GetBackers
Kino's Journey
Magical Play
Mezzo DSA
Parasite Dolls
Petshop Of Horrors
Princess Resurrection
RahXephon
Saiyuki
Tokko
X
Blue Dragon
Gurren Lagann
Black Lagoon
Clannad
K-On!
Moribito
Monster
Now and Then, Here and There
Descendants of darkness
Ergo Proxy
Fate/stay Night
Gantz
Sgt. Frog
Claymore
Chrono Crusade
Naruto Shippuden
Kenichi: The Mightiest Disciple
Spiral: The Bonds of Reasoning
Casshern Sins
Black God
Mai-Otome
Pretty Cure
Hayate the Combat Butler
Shakugan No Shana
The Tower of Druaga
D.N.Angel


2010s[edit]
In 2010, Dragon Ball Z Kai premiered on Nicktoons and became a hit success for the network, Nicktoons also aired the original Dragon Ball Z films and Dragon Ball GT. Starting on March 2013, Yu-Gi-Oh! and one of its continuing series, Yu-Gi-Oh! Zexal started to air on the network. Digimon Adventure and Digimon Adventure 02 also started to air on the network starting June 2013 and one of its continuing series, Digimon Fusion moved to the network on October 13, 2013 from Nickelodeon just after three episodes, mostly due to Nickelodeon's failed attempt at marketing the anime before it premiered September 7, 2013.
Fansub sites of popular anime have been popular yet controversial in the U.S. Many are criticized for losing anime licencors revenue and have been blamed for the cause of many companies going out of business. Section23, Bandai, Viz, TV Tokyo and Funimation have tried to limit these efforts by sending cease and decease letters or blocking out content on many sites. Also the production of English dubs of anime in general has decreased and many distributors are switching to the subtitle-only market such as Sentai Filmworks, Aniplex Of America and NIS America.
In 2012, Bandai folded its Bandai Entertainment anime licensing department in the United States, and eventually studio Sunrise (owned by Bandai Visual) made deals with Funimation and Sentai Filmworks to license and republish Sunrise titles formerly licensed by Bandai Entertainment. In 2012, 4Kids Entertainment filed for bankruptcy protection and sold off the rights to the Yu-Gi-Oh! franchise back to Konami and the remaining licenses went to Saban Brands.
In early 2012, Fullmetal Alchemist: The Sacred Star of Milos was released in over 100 theaters throughout North America.
Disney released The Secret World of Arrietty theatrically and it grew to become a huge box office success and is one of the highest grossing films of 2012 (Number 50 in the Worldwide box office).
In 2012, due to popular request on Twitter, Reddit and Facebook: the Toonami block was revived and began airing on Adult Swim, replacing Adult Swim Action. Similar to Midnight Run, it is now targeted to the young adult demographic with little to no editing of content. On May 16, 2014, Viz Media acquired the license for the original Sailor Moon series (formerly owned by DiC/Cloverway, Inc in the 1990s and early 2000s) and the new 2014 anime series, Pretty Guardian Sailor Moon: Crystal, which it was premiered on July 5, 2014. In May 2014, Disney acquired the broadcasting rights for the 2005 series based on the Fujiko Fujio manga Doraemon, and began airing the program on Disney XD on July 7 of that year, marking the first ever release of the Doraemon franchise in the United States.
In December 2015, Funimation Channel changed its name to Toku, after Funimation finished its alliance with Olympusat, being the only 24/7 television channel dedicated in broadcasting anime series and films, as well as live-action Asian films.


Soul Eater
Halo Legends
Fairy Tail
Kekkaishi
Clannad: After Story
InuYasha: The Final Act
Fullmetal Alchemist Brotherhood
Slayers Revolution
Slayers Evolution-R
Beyblade: Metal Fusion
Kaze no Stigma
Break Blade
Future Diary
Dragon Ball Z Kai
Hetalia: Axis Powers
Guilty Crown
Mobile Suit Gundam Unicorn
Deltora Quest
Heaven's Lost Property
Cat Shit One
Togainu no Chi
Cat Planet Cuties
Oreimo
Needless
Black Butler
Panty and Stocking with Garterbelt
Hero Tales
Durarara!!
Deadman Wonderland
Marvel Anime
Squid Girl
Tai Chi Chasers
Yu-Gi-Oh! Zexal
Viper's Creed
Ultraviolet: Code 044
Monsuno
Blue Exorcist
Wish Upon the Pleiades
Star Driver
Cardfight!! Vanguard
Fractale
Baka and Test
Sailor Moon Crystal
Shiki
Persona 4: The Animation
Hakuoki
Intrigue in the Bakumatsu - Irohanihoheto
Nura: Rise of the Yokai Clan
AnoHana
Occult Academy
Pandora Hearts
Haganai
The World God Only Knows
Rosario + Vampire
Appleseed XIII
Sword Art Online
Tenkai Knights
B-Daman Crossfire
Digimon Fusion
Space Dandy
Little Battlers Experience
Attack on Titan
Doraemon
Kill la Kill
Terror in Resonance
Tokyo Ghoul
Michiko & Hatchin
Parasyte -the maxim-
Sword Art Online II
Akame ga Kill!
Yo-Kai Watch
Yu-Gi-Oh! Arc-V
Dimension W
Ajin: Demi-Human
Love Live! School Idol Project
Hunter × Hunter (2011)
Mobile Suit Gundam: Iron-Blooded Orphans
My Hero Academia
One-Punch Man
JoJo's Bizarre Adventure
Beyblade: Burst
Dragon Ball Super
Mobile Suit Gundam Unicorn RE:0096
Absolute Duo
Bikini Warriors
Senran Kagura
Dragonar Academy
High School DxD
Dance in the Vampire Bund
Aesthetica of a Rogue Hero
Mikagura School Suite
Magical Warfare
Miss Kobayashi's Dragon Maid
Black Clover


2020s[edit]






v
t
e


Lists of anime



By genre



Action
Adventure
Comedy
Drama
Fantasy
Hentai
Horror
Mecha
Mystery
Romance
Science fiction
Slice of life





By broadcaster



Fuji Television
Nippon Television
Mainichi Broadcasting System
Tokyo Broadcasting System
Hero
NHK





Other



Based on video games
In the United States

Simulcasts
Theatrically released


By episode count
By release date (pre-1939) (1939-1945) (1946–1959)
By total episode count
Highest-grossing films
Osamu Tezuka
Titles by Green Bunny





See also



Years in anime










 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=List_of_anime_in_the_United_States&oldid=812374474"					
Categories: Lists of animeAmerican television-related lists 
