Location Managers Guild Awards - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Location Managers Guild Award





Awarded for
LMGI Award for Outstanding use of Locations


Presented by
Location Managers Guild International


First awarded
2014


Website
http://www.lmgiawards.com


The Location Managers Guild held their inaugural awards show in March 2014 at the Writers Guild Theater in Beverly Hills, with honors going to Location Managers Robert Boake (Game of Thrones), Ilt Jones (Iron Man 3), David Doumeng & Charlie Love (Nike), and the Albuquerque Film Commission (Breaking Bad).[1]
Following the success of its first year, the LMGI has since continued to honor the outstanding creative contributions of location professionals around the world annually, currently held in conjunction with the AFCI Location Show in Los Angeles, CA.
In addition to the awards given for the best location professional in film, television, commercials, and film commission, the LMGI presents honorary awards to a location professional for lifetime achievement, to a trailblazer who has been a leader in furthering the recognition of location professionals in motion picture and television, a humanitarian award, and the Eva Monley[2] award for an entertainment industry professional that has demonstrated ‘above and beyond’ support of the work of location professionals.



Contents


1 LMGI Award winners and nominees

1.1 2017
1.2 2016
1.3 2015
1.4 2014


2 List of multiple winners and nominees
3 References



LMGI Award winners and nominees[edit]




The 4th Annual LMGI Awards were held on the historic Warner Bros backlot


Winner in bold at the top of the list
2017[edit]
Date: 8 April 2017
Location: Warner Bros. Studios, Burbank, CA
Host: Rico Gagliano
Notable Guests: Directors Joe Pytka and Brad Silberling, author Michael Connelly, actors Amir Talai and Katherine Von Till


LMGI Award for Outstanding use of Locations[3][4]


Outstanding Locations in Contemporary Film
Outstanding Locations in Period Film



La La Land – Robert Foulkes and Steve Beimler

Hell or High Water – Jonathan Slator and Erik Keeling-Torrez
Jason Bourne – Chris Moore and Peter Martorano
Lion – Hugo Cran, Sandeep Rudra and Harsh Dave
Manchester by the Sea – Kai Quinlan and Alex Berard



Hidden Figures – Wes Hagan and Dan Gorman

Hacksaw Ridge – Edward Donovan
Hail, Caesar! – John Panzarella and Leslie Thorson
Live by Night – JJ Hook and Laura Bryant
Rogue One: A Star Wars Story – Mark Somner and David O'Reily




Outstanding Locations in Contemporary Television
Outstanding Locations in Period Television



The Night Manager – Tom Howard and Daniel Sampedro Palerm

The Affair – Sean Ilnseher
Better Call Saul – Christian Diaz de Bedoya
Bosch – Robert Paulsen and Paul Schreiber
Goliath – Jason Kaplon and Mike Barry
Scandal – Veronique Vowell



The Crown – Pat Karam and Robert Bentley (tie)
Westworld – Mandi Dillin (tie)

Game of Thrones – Matt Jones and Naomi Liston
The Man in the High Castle – Nicole Noelle Chartrand, Robert Murdoch
Stranger Things – Tony Holley




Outstanding Locations in a Commercial
Outstanding Film Commission



MacBook Pro "Bulbs" – David Doumeng and Charlie Love (tie)
Johnnie Walker "This Land is Your Land" – JJ Levine, Will Brewster, Patrick Burn, Dana Hanby (tie)

Visa "The Carpool to Rio" – Heather Haase, Ron Shino, Johnny Catrolli, Rob Darwin
O Organics "Rally" – Byll Williams and Phil Kane
Donate Life PSA "World's Biggest Asshole" – Galidan Nauber and Cale Hanks



Royal Film Commission Jordan – Rogue One

Creative Scotland – The BFG
Nevada Film Office – Jason Bourne
New Mexico Film Office – Hell or High Water
New York State Governor's Office of Motion Picture Development – The Girl on the Train




LMGI Honorary Awards[5]


Lifetime Achievement Award
Trailblazer Award




Stuart Raven Barter




Lori Balton




Humanitarian Award
Eva Monley Award




Not Awarded




Danny Boyle




2016[edit]
Date: 23 April 2016
Location: Alex Theatre, Glendale, CA
Host: David Doumeng (2014 LMGA Award recipient)
Notable Guests: Directors Christopher Guest and Michael Mann, actors Jeff Goldblum, Tony Revolori, Milana Vayntrub


LMGI Award for Outstanding use of Locations[6][7]


Outstanding Locations in Contemporary Film
Outstanding Locations in Period Film




Sicario – S Todd Christensen and Shani Orona

Blackhat – Janice Polley and Julie Hannum
Black Mass – Charlie Harrington and Benjamin Dewey
Creed – Patricia Taggart and Dan Gorman
Our Brand Is Crisis – Batou Chandler and Luis Estrella






The Revenant – Robin Mounsey and Bruce Brownstein

Bridge of Spies – Klaus Darrelmann and Markus Bensch
Mad Max: Fury Road – Simon Crook and Paul Tomlinson
Straight Outta Compton – Alison A Taylor
Trumbo – David Thornsberry






Outstanding Locations in Contemporary Television
Outstanding Locations in Period Television




Sense8 – Marco Giacalone and Bill Bowling

Bosch – Robert Paulsen and Paul Schreiber
Better Call Saul – Christian Diaz de Bedoya
Mr. Robot Demian Resnick
True Detective – Michael Chickey and Caleb Duffy






Game of Thrones – Robert Boake and Tate Araez

Aquarius – Michael Haro and Stacey Brashear
Fargo – Matt Palmer and Rob Hilton
Gotham – Keith Adams and Pat Sones
Sleepy Hollow – Nancy Haecker and Ryan Taylor






Outstanding Locations in a Commercial
Outstanding Film Commission




Chevrolet “Chevy Anthem” – Sean Alquist

Apple "History of Sound" – Peter Orth, David Henriksen and David McKinney
Budweiser "Lost Dog" – Patrick Riley
Facebook "Friend Request" – Adam Butt and Wilson Wu
Toyota "Let's Go Places" – Scott Logan and Scott Trimble






Film LA

Alburquerque Film Commission
Berlin Brandenburg Film Commission
Comisión de Filmaciones de la Ciudad de México
Royal Film Commission of Jordan






LMGI Honorary Awards


Lifetime Achievement Award
Trailblazer Award




Janice Polley




Steve Dayan




Humanitarian Award
Eva Monley Award




Amy Brenneman and Brad Silberling




Wes Anderson




2015[edit]
Date: 7 March 2015
Location: Wallis Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, Beverly Hills, CA
Host: David Doumeng (2014 LMGA Award recipient)
Notable Guests: Debbie Allen, Tony Denison, Ted Lange, Alfre Woodard


LMGA Award for Outstanding use of Locations[8][9]


Outstanding Locations in Contemporary Film
Outstanding Locations in Period Film




Wild – Nancy Haecker

Chef – Kei Rowan-Young
Gone Girl – Rick Schuler and Steve Mapel
Nightcrawler – Curtis Collins and Mike Brewer
The Gambler – Chris Baugh






The Grand Budapest Hotel – Klaus Darrelmann

Fury – Russell Lodge and Lee Robertson
Inherent Vice – Larry Ring and Scott Fitzgerald
Selma – Wes Hagen and Leif Tilden
The Imitation Game – David Broder and Richard George






Outstanding Locations in Contemporary Television
Outstanding Locations in Period Television




True Detective – Batou Chandler

Homeland – Robert Bentley and Deon du Preez
Nashville – Kristi Frankenheimer and Mark Ragland
NCIS: Los Angeles – Tony Salome and Jason Savage
Ray Donovan – Craig van Gundy and Boyd Wilson






Boardwalk Empire – Amanda Foley and Audra Gorman

American Horror Story – John Johnson
Forever – Guy Efrat
Turn: Washington's Spies – Tom Trigo and Becky Beckstoffer






Outstanding Locations in a Single Commercial
Outstanding Locations in a Commercial Campaign




Coca-Cola, "America is Beautiful" – Jimmy Ayoub, Cindy McCrossen, Peter Orth, Stephen Pherigo

Budweiser "Always There" – JJ Levine and Byll Williams
Nissan "Fly by Night" – Gil Evans, Marie-Paule Goislard, Beth Tate
Nissan Altima "Migration" – Crofton Diack and Mike Floyd
Honda Civic "Today is Pretty Great" – Jof Hanwright, Jesse Rivard






"Ram Trucks" – David McKinney and Peter Orth

"Subaru Outback" – Alissa Desler and Lori Allen






Outstanding Film Commission




Long Beach Office of Special Events and Filming

Chicago Film Office
Film in Iceland
Oregon Governor's Office of Film & Television
Royal Film Commission of Jordan






LMGA Honorary Awards


Lifetime Achievement Award
Trailblazer Award




Kokayi Ampah




Marino Pascal




Humanitarian Award
Eva Monley Award




Caroline Baron – FilmAid International




Not Awarded




2014[edit]
Date: 29 March 2014
Location: Writers Guild Theater, Beverly Hills, CA
Host: Jamie Kaler
Notable Guests: AMPAS President Cheryl Boone Isaacs, actors Shari Belafonte, Billy Crystal, Kate Linder


LMGA Award for Outstanding Achievement by a Location Professional[1][10]


Outstanding Achievement in Television
Outstanding Achievement in Feature Film




Robert Boake – Game of Thrones

Patrick Burn – House of Cards
Christian Diaz de Bedoya – Breaking Bad
Caleb Duffy – Behind the Candelabra






Ilt Jones – Iron Man 3

John Latenser V – Nebraska
Rick Schuler and Steve Mapel – Her
Andrew Ullman and Lori Balton – Saving Mr. Banks
David Velasco – American Hustle






Outstanding Achievement in Commercials
Outstanding Film Commission




David Doumeng and Charlie Love – "Nike"

Dale Dreher – "America's Got Talent"
Kent Matsuoka – "Mountain Dew"
Barbara Miller – "Optimum"
Byll Williams and JJ Levine – "Gatorade"






Albuquerque Film Commission – Breaking Bad

Film in Iceland – The Secret Life of Walter Mitty
Film LA – NCIS: Los Angeles
Long Beach Film Commission – Dexter
South Pasadena Film Commission – Dexter






LMGA Award for Outstanding use of Locations


Outstanding Locations in Television
Outstanding Locations in Feature Film




Game of Thrones

Breaking Bad
House of Cards
NCIS: Los Angeles






The Secret Life of Walter Mitty

American Hustle
Fruitvale Station
Nebraska
Philomena






LMGA Honorary Awards


Lifetime Achievement Award
Trailblazer Award




Scott Dewees




Sheri Davis




Humanitarian Award
Eva Monley Award




Haskell Wexler




Alexander Payne




List of multiple winners and nominees[edit]
The following list is arranged by number of wins, nominations, and last name in order of preference (current as of April 2017) :








Billy Crystal presents Haskell Wexler the 2014 LMGA Humanitarian Award


2+ Location Manager Wins

Peter Orth (2 wins, 3 nominations)
Robert Boake (2 wins, 2 nominations)
David Doumeng (2 wins, 2 nominations)
Charlie Love (2 wins, 2 nominations)

2+ Location Manager Nominations

JJ Levine (1 win, 3 nominations)
Batou Chandler (1 win, 2 nominations)
Klaus Darrelmann (1 win, 2 nominations)
Dan Gorman (1 win, 2 nominations)
Nancy Haecker (1 win, 2 nominations)
Wes Hagen (1 win, 2 nominations)
David McKinney (1 win, 2 nominations
Christian Diaz de Bedoya (3 nominations)
Byll Williams (3 nominations)
Caleb Duffy (2 nominations)
Steve Mapel (2 nominations)
Robert Paulsen (2 nominations)
Paul Schreiber (2 nomination)
Rick Schuler (2 nominations)

2+ Television Series Wins

Game of Thrones (3 wins, 4 nominations)

2+ Television Series Nominations

True Detective (1 win, 2 nominations)
Breaking Bad (2 nominations)
Better Call Saul (2 nominations)
Bosch (2 nominations)
House of Cards (2 nominations)
NCIS: Los Angeles (2 nominations)

Wins by Network

HBO (6 Wins, 9 nominations)
Netflix (2 Wins, 5 nominations)
AMC (1 Win, 7 nominations)
Amazon (4 nominations)
ABC (3 nominations)
Showtime (3 nominations)

2+ Film Commission Nominations

Royal Film Commission of Jordan (1 win, 3 nominations)
Alburquerque Film Commission (1 win, 2 nominations)
Film LA (1 win, 2 nominations)
Long Beach Film Commission (1 win, 2 nominations)
Film in Iceland (2 nominations)

References[edit]



^ a b Johns, Nikara (February 27, 2014). "Location Managers Guild Sets Inaugural Awards". Variety. Retrieved 2014-12-11. 
^ "About the Eva Monley Award" Location Managers Guild of America Retrieved 2014-12-11
^ Giardina, Carolyn (22 February 2017). "'Hidden Figures,' 'La La Land' Among Location Managers Guild Award Nominees". Hollywood Reporter. Retrieved 2017-02-22. 
^ Giardina, Carolyn (9 April 2017). "'Hidden Figures', 'La La Land' win Location Managers Guild Awards". Hollywood Reporter. Retrieved 9 April 2017. 
^ Giardina, Carolyn (14 March 2017). "Danny Boyle Honored by Location Managers". Hollywood Reporter. Retrieved 2017-03-14. 
^ "Nominations Announced For The 3rd Annual Location Managers Guild International Awards". SHOOTonline. 1 March 2016. Retrieved 2016-06-24. 
^ Giardina, Carolyn (23 April 2016). "Location Managers Awards: The Complete Winners List". Hollywood Reporter. Retrieved 2016-06-29. 
^ "Nominations Announced For The 2nd Annual Location Managers Guild Of America (LMGA) Awards". SHOOTonline. 28 January 2015. Retrieved 2016-06-25. 
^ Tom, Brendon (9 March 2015). "Location Managers Honored for Outstanding Achievement". P3 Update. Retrieved 2016-06-25. 
^ Caracas, Peter (29 March 2014). "Walter Mitty finally gets love". Variety. Retrieved 2014-12-11. 











 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Location_Managers_Guild_Awards&oldid=810375161"					
Categories: Advertising awardsAmerican film awardsAmerican television awardsAwards established in 2014Guild awardsInternational film awards 
