Longhorn Network - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Longhorn Network





Launched
August 26, 2011 (2011-08-26)[1]


Owned by
University of Texas at Austin
ESPN Inc.
IMG College


Picture format
720p (HD), 480i (SD)


Slogan
Hook 'Em Horns


Country
United States


Language
English


Broadcast area
Nationwide


Headquarters
Austin, Texas


Sister channel(s)
ESPN
ESPN2
ESPN3
ESPNews
ESPNU
ESPN Deportes
ESPN Classic
ACC Network
SEC Network


Website
Longhorn Network



Availability



Satellite


Dish Network
Channel 407 (HD/SD)


DirecTV
Channel 677 (HD only)


Cable


Cox
(AR, KS, LA and OK)
Check local listings


Charter
(AR, LA, NM, TX and VA)
Check local listings


Grande
(TX)
Check local listings


Time Warner
(TX)
Channel 383 (HD/SD)


IPTV


AT&T U-verse
Channel 611 (SD)
Channel 1611 (HD)


Verizon FiOS
Texas:
Channel 79 (SD)
Channel 579 (HD)
Other areas:
Channel 320 (SD)


Google Fiber
Channel 230 (HD/SD)


Streaming media


WatchESPN
espn.go.com/longhornnetwork


The Longhorn Network (LHN) is an American regional sports network that is owned as a joint venture between the University of Texas at Austin, ESPN and IMG College, and is operated by ESPN (itself owned jointly by The Walt Disney Company and the Hearst Corporation). The network, which launched on August 26, 2011, focuses on the Texas Longhorns varsity sports teams of the University of Texas at Austin.
The Longhorn Network, whose name and logo was revealed during the Longhorns' spring football game on April 3, 2011,[2] features events from 20 different sports involving the Texas Longhorns athletics department, along with original and historical programming. The network also features academic and cultural content from the UT Austin campus.



Contents


1 Carriage

1.1 Carriage agreements

1.1.1 2012
1.1.2 2013
1.1.3 2014
1.1.4 2015
1.1.5 2017


1.2 Online presence


2 Programming

2.1 Regular programming
2.2 Sports


3 Controversies

3.1 High school football
3.2 Big 12 Conference football
3.3 Potential conflict of interest


4 References
5 External links



Carriage[edit]
The first national provider to carry the Longhorn Network was fiber optic television service Verizon FiOS, which announced a deal to carry the network in August 2011.[3] On August 31, 2012, the network began to be carried on AT&T U-verse. Several smaller cable providers throughout Texas have also added the channel – namely Consolidated Communications, Bay City Cablevision, Mid-Coast Cablevision, Texas Mid-Gulf Cablevision, En-Touch Systems, E-Tex Communications and Grande Communications.[4][5]
Currently, the only major provider serving Texas that does not carry the Longhorn Network is Comcast. The status of negotiations with Comcast are not publicly known.[4]
Carriage agreements[edit]
2012[edit]
On October 4, 2012, New York-based Cablevision Systems Corporation began carrying LHN on its systems in the Western United States. Its New York City area systems were not included in the deal.[6] Two months later on December 12, Cox Communications announced a comprehensive long-term distribution agreement that included adding the Longhorn Network to its systems in Arkansas, Kansas, Louisiana and Oklahoma.[7][8] On December 31, 2012, Charter Communications announced that it would add LHN as part of a wide-range long-term carriage deal with ESPN and The Walt Disney Company. Charter also took over Cablevision's western systems in the first quarter of 2013 and maintained the rights agreed to by Cablevision for LHN. It is available on its systems in Arkansas, Louisiana, New Mexico, Texas and Virginia.[9][8]
2013[edit]
On August 8, 2013, Time Warner Cable announced that it would begin carrying LHN in its Texas service areas.[10]
2014[edit]
On March 3, 2014, The Walt Disney Company and Dish Network announced a deal to carry the Longhorn Network as part of a new long-term, wide-ranging distribution agreement.[11] The channel became available on the satellite provider on May 28 of that year. On December 23, 2014, DirecTV announced a long-term, wide-ranging distribution agreement with Disney that included the carriage of Longhorn Network. [12]
2015[edit]
Longhorn Network launched on DirecTV on January 21, 2015 along with Fusion. It became available on regional sports network on the Choice package in the Southwestern United States and on the Sports Pack everywhere else. [13]
2017[edit]
In May 2017, DirecTV Now reduced the presence for the Longhorn Network from nationwide coverage to solely to the Big 12 territory (DirecTV's satellite service continues to carry LHN nationally). [14]
Online presence[edit]
Although the Longhorn Network has an internet presence hosted by ESPN, it functions as a TV Everywhere service that is unavailable to subscribers unless their cable and internet service provider carries the network, with further geographical restrictions (usually confined to the states contained within the Big 12 Conference); WatchESPN enforces the same restrictions in carrying the Longhorn Network feed on that site.[15] Patrick Ryan, Policy Counsel, Open Internet at Google pointed out that the reach of LHN as of September 2012 was about 10 million potential viewers, whereas if it were online, it could reach 230 million viewers in the U.S., or as many as 2 billion potential viewers.[15]
Programming[edit]
Regular programming[edit]
[16][17]

Longhorn Extra: This Week – A weekly broadcast covering news on the university's 20 varsity teams.
Rewind with Tom Herman – A Monday program featuring analysis from the football coach of the past weekend's game.
Texas All Access – A weekly insider show about the Longhorns sports teams, focusing on the football team during the fall months.
Game Plan with Tom Herman – A Thursday night preview show to the upcoming weekend's football game.
Texas GameDay – A two-hour pre-game show, similar in format to ESPN's College GameDay, which is broadcast from the site of Darrell K Royal – Texas Memorial Stadium for home games and the Austin-based network studio for road games.
Texas GameDay Final – A 90-minute post-game show, similar in format to ESPN's College Football Final, on site at Darrell K Royal – Texas Memorial Stadium for home games and the Austin-based network studio for road games.
Longhorn Legends – A roundtable discussion program with Longhorns football coach Mack Brown and a rotating selection of former players.
The Season: 2005 Texas Longhorns – An in-depth review of the 2005 Longhorns football season, during which the team earned its fourth national championship in the university's history.
Texas' Greatest Games – A Top 10 countdown of what is considered to be the program's best football games.
Texas' Greatest Athletes – A program covering those who are considered to be the best athletes (across all sports) that the school has produced.
Traditions – A look into how some of the university's historical sports traditions started.

Sports[edit]
The first live sports event broadcast on the network aired on the date of its launch, the women's volleyball team's 2011 season opener against the Pepperdine Waves. The first live football game telecast on the network aired on September 3, 2011, in which the Longhorns played against the Rice Owls.[18] The Longhorn Network would expand its sports coverage to include five UTSA Roadrunners football games to its schedule for sister campus University of Texas at San Antonio's inaugural football season, the first of which aired on September 10, 2011.[19] The majority of the live events are handled by the Longhorn Network Operations department, which manages the crew that sets up the equipment used to air the event. Over 200 live events were managed by this department during the 2011-2012 school year.
In 2015, Longhorn Network simulcast the featured groups coverage of ESPN's broadcast of the Open Championship, as it featured Longhorns alumni Jordan Spieth.[20]
Controversies[edit]
High school football[edit]
From the initial announcement of the Longhorn Network, ESPN had made it known that it desired to broadcast up to 18 high school football games per season. The idea was a cause for concern among other Big 12 schools, especially Texas A&M, due to what that university viewed as possible recruiting violations, and was partly responsible for A&M's decision to leave the Big 12 for the Southeastern Conference in 2012.[21] During an August 1, 2011, meeting of all Big 12 athletic directors, it was decided that the issue of airing high school football games on the network would be postponed for one year, allowing time for the NCAA to rule on the matter.[22] On August 11, 2011, the NCAA ruled that no school or conference network would be permitted to broadcast high school sports or any other high school programming, effectively bringing the issue to a close.[23][24]
Big 12 Conference football[edit]
In addition to a non-conference game each season, ESPN desired to place a Big 12 Conference game on the Longhorn Network. At the same Big 12 meeting that discussed high school football telecasts, it was agreed upon that a conference game would be acceptable as long as both schools and the conference office approved the broadcast.[22] It was reported that ESPN asked Texas Tech for permission to broadcast the team's November 5 game against the Longhorns on the network. ESPN told the university that the game would most likely not be carried on any of the ESPN family of networks, leaving a broadcast on the LHN as its only option. In return, ESPN promised to televise two non-conference football games over the next four seasons, televise some other non-football programming, $5 million cash, and help from the network to try to arrange a home-and-home series against a top BCS conference school. Texas Tech passed on the offer with the university's chancellor Kent Hance explaining that "I don't want a Tech fan to have to give one dime to the Longhorn Network". ESPN then contacted Oklahoma State about airing games on the network; that university also refused the invitation to appear on the network.[25] Texas Athletics eventually announced that the Kansas Jayhawks had agreed to let its game against the Longhorns on October 29 air on LHN (the University of Kansas's third-tier media rights are also managed by LHN co-owner IMG College). The agreement allowed the Longhorn Network to be the national carrier of the game, except in Kansas markets, where the game was shown on broadcast television.[26] ESPN revealed plans to broadcast the Texas Tech-Texas State game on the Longhorn Network in 2012, however Texas Tech threatened to drop the game in favor of an 11-game schedule, resulting the game being removed from LHN's schedule.
In November 2012, ESPN syndicated a second feed of a Longhorn football home game against Iowa State to ABC-affiliated television stations across Iowa (including KETV in Omaha, Nebraska, which is owned by ESPN part-owner Hearst Corporation) to provide access to the game within that state. A secondary announcing team was used for the Iowa State feed.[27] The same was done in September 2013 for a matchup against Ole Miss throughout the state of Mississippi. Mediacom eventually established an online/traditional network with Iowa State in their service area, Cyclones.tv, featuring university programming, along with any live games featuring Texas which are only available through Longhorn Network.
Potential conflict of interest[edit]
Concerns have been raised by some fans, bloggers and journalists that ESPN's financial stake in the Longhorn Network creates a potential conflict of interest.[28][29][30] Some fear that ESPN's involvement in the network will inhibit journalistic integrity as that network has a financial interest in the success of the athletic programs at the University of Texas. Sports Illustrated writer Richard Deitsch wrote: "The network's existence... creates an impossible situation for ESPN's college football producers and reporters (plenty of whom care about reporting). For every story ESPN does on Texas and its opponents, they'll be skeptics wondering what the motivation was for the story."[31]
Additionally, some have questioned the stipulation included in the network's founding agreement that gives Texas the right to dismiss LHN announcers that do not "reflect the quality and reputation of UT."[28][32] An ESPN spokesperson addressed the situation by stating: "This is not common in ESPN agreements because this UT network is so unique/new for us ...The provision does not allow for random replacement of commentators or reaction to critical comments... it's more about potential situations where a commentator makes completely inappropriate comments or gets involved in inappropriate actions."[33]
References[edit]
Notes


^ Texas' Longhorn Network raising some concerns around Big 12, USA Today, retrieved 25 July 2011
^ "ESPN and University of Texas unveil 'Longhorn Network' name and logo," from TexasSports.com, 4/3/2011
^ ESPN's Longhorn Network Corrals Verizon FiOS As First Announced Affiliate Multichannel News August 25, 2011
^ a b Longhorn Network Adds Six Texas Operators Multichannel News August 26, 2011
^ Grande adds Longhorn Network Austin American-Statesman September 2, 2011
^ Longhorn Network signs deal with Cablevision Systems Houston Chronicle October 4, 2012
^ Kristie Chong Adler. "The Walt Disney Company and Cox Communications Announce Comprehensive Distribution Agreement - ESPN MediaZone". ESPN MediaZone. 
^ a b "Frequently Asked Questions about the Longhorn Network". go.com. 
^ Press release (31 December 2012). "The Walt Disney Company and Charter Communications Announce New Distribution Agreement". The Futon Critic. Retrieved 1 January 2013. 
^ Kristie Chong Adler. "Time Warner Cable Launches Longhorn Network - ESPN MediaZone". ESPN MediaZone. 
^ Kristie Chong Adler. "The Walt Disney Company and DISH Network Sign Groundbreaking Long-term, Wide-ranging Agreement - ESPN MediaZone". ESPN MediaZone. 
^ "DIRECTV - DIRECTV and The Walt Disney Company Sign Expansive Agreement". directv.com. 
^ "Ande Wall on Twitter". Twitter. 
^ "DIRECTV Now Moves Longhorn Network From National Channel to Regional". tvanswerman.com. 
^ a b “College sports should hook ‘em online”, from Policy By the Numbers (September 8, 2012)
^ Longhorn Network to launch Aug. 26; first slate of shows announced Archived 2011-09-20 at the Wayback Machine., Austin American-Statesman, retrieved 25 July 2011
^ Longhorn Network announces additional programming, Austin American-Statesman, retrieved 5 August 2011
^ Longhorn Network names on-air team Archived 2011-07-11 at the Wayback Machine., KXAN-TV. Retrieved 25 July 2011.
^ "Longhorn Network to air 5 UTSA home football games". statesman.com. 
^ "British Open 2015 viewing guide: Coverage schedule and how to watch live online from St. Andrews". SBNation. Retrieved 19 July 2015. 
^ Staples, Andy (July 5, 2012). "TCU finally in Big 12". Inside College Football. Sports Illustrated. p. 2. Retrieved September 28, 2012. 
^ a b Big 12 sets up restrictions on Longhorn Network, Houston Chronicle. Retrieved 1 August 2011
^ High school games cannot be on school networks Archived 2012-10-17 at the Wayback Machine., CBS Sports, retrieved 11 August 2011
^ Finger, Mike (August 11, 2011). "Longhorn Network's high school plans permanently shot down". San Antonio Express. Retrieved September 3, 2011. 
^ Tech says no to Longhorn Network, Amarillo Globe-News. Retrieved 9 August 2011/
^ Texas-Kansas football game to air on Longhorn Network, TexasSports.com. Retrieved 2 September 2011.
^ Dinges, Gary (9 November 2012). "Texas-Iowa State game to air, but Longhorn Network remains tough to find". Austin American-Statesman. Retrieved 10 November 2012. 
^ a b Open Mikes: Is the Longhorn Network a good or bad idea? USA Today. Retrieved August 29, 2011
^ Longhorn Network Contract Between Texas and ESPN Revealed, Big 12 Future Not Bright The Big Lead. Retrieved August 29, 2011
^ ESPN's Texas Longhorn Network - Good For College Sports? Corn Nation. Retrieved August 29, 2011
^ College Football TV Roundtable SI.com. Retrieved August 29, 2011
^ ESPN Talent on the Longhorn Network Better Be Nice – or the University of Texas Might Have You Replaced The Big Lead. Retrieved August 29, 2011
^ Longhorns TV Deal: Texas Can Fire ESPN Broadcasters Burnt Orange Nation. Retrieved August 29, 2011


Further reading

Steven Godfrey (October 3, 2013). "The eye of Texas: Inside the Longhorn Network as it continues to enter uncharted television territory". SB Nation. Retrieved October 8, 2013. 

External links[edit]

Official website







v
t
e


The University of Texas at Austin




Located in: Austin, Texas



Academics



School of Architecture
Cockrell School of Engineering
Dell Medical School
Moody College of Communication (Department of Radio-Television-Film)
College of Fine Arts (Sarah and Ernest Butler School of Music)
College of Liberal Arts
Graduate School
Jackson School of Geosciences
School of Law
LBJ School of Public Affairs
McCombs School of Business
College of Natural Sciences
School of Information








Research



Américo Paredes Center for Cultural Studies
Center for Community College Student Engagement
Center for Complex Quantum Systems
RGK Center for Philanthropy and Community Service
Robert S. Strauss Center for International Security and Law
Texas Advanced Computing Center
The William P. Clements Jr. Center for National Security





Athletics



Football
Baseball
Men's basketball
Women's basketball
Swimming & Diving
Volleyball
Softball
Darrell K Royal–Texas Memorial Stadium
Erwin Special Events Center
Denton A. Cooley Pavilion
UFCU Disch–Falk Field
Myers Stadium
McCombs Field
Gregory Gymnasium
Jamail Texas Swimming Center
Lone Star Showdown





Campus



List of buildings
Art Building
Battle Hall
Batts Hall
Benedict Hall
Blanton Museum of Art (Austin by Ellsworth Kelly)
Burdine Hall
Calhoun Hall
Flawn Academic Center
Garrison Hall
Goldsmith Hall
Harry Ransom Center
J. Frank Dobie House
Pickle Research Campus
Jester Center
Littlefield Fountain
Lady Bird Johnson Wildflower Center
Landmarks (public art collection)
Los Angeles Center
LBJ Library and Museum
Main Building (The Tower)
McDonald Observatory
Painter Hall
Performing Arts Center
Perry–Castañeda Library
Sutton Hall
Texas Memorial Museum
Union Building
Welch Hall





History



History of the University
Stephen F. Austin
Constitution of 1876
Fisher v. University of Texas (2013)
Fisher v. University of Texas (2016)
Hopwood v. Texas
Sweatt v. Painter
Tower shooting





People



Alumni
Faculty
Presidents
Texas Exes
Friar Society
Tejas Club





Traditions



Bevo
The Eyes of Texas
Hex Rally
Hook 'em Horns
Hook 'em (mascot)
The Showband of the Southwest
Texas Cowboys
Texas Silver Spurs
Texas Fight
World's Largest Texas Flag





Student life



Fraternities and Sororities
The Drag
Hook 'em Horns





Media



KUT
KUTX
Longhorn IMG Sports Network
Longhorn Network
StarDate
Texas Student Media (KVRX-FM, Texas Student Television, Texas Travesty, The Daily Texan)








Founded: 1883
Students: 50,950
Endowment: 3.395 billion












v
t
e


ESPN Inc.



Executives



George Bodenheimer
John Skipper
Edwin Durso
Chuck Pagano
Norby Williamson





U.S. networks




Linear TV



ESPN
ESPN2
ESPNews
Classic
ESPNU
Deportes
Longhorn Network
SEC Network





Part-time/Digital



ACC Network Extra
ESPN on ABC
ESPN3
College Extra
Plus
Goal Line





Radio



ESPN Radio

Deportes


Xtra








International



Brasil

ESPN
ESPN Brasil
ESPN +
ESPN Extra


Caribbean

ESPN
ESPN 2


Indian subcontinent

Sony ESPN


Japan

J Sports


Latin America

ESPN
ESPN 2
ESPN 3
ESPN +
ESPN Extra


Oceania

ESPN
ESPN 2


Philippines

ESPN 5


Sub-Saharan Africa

ESPN


UK and Ireland

BT Sport ESPN







Co-owned Canadian
sports networks



TSN

1
2
3
4
5


RDS
RDS2
RDS Info
ESPN Classic Canada





Ventures



ESPN.com
ESPN Deportes.com
ESPN Broadband
ESPN Films
ESPN The Magazine
ESPN Deportes La Revista
ESPN Books
ESPY Awards
ESPN Integration
WatchESPN





Defunct ventures



ESPN West
Arena Football League (minority stake, 2006–2009)
ESPN Star Sports (equity stake, 1994–2013)
ESPN 3D (2010–2013)
ESPN America (2002–2013)
ESPN Classic (UK) (2006–2013)
ESPN MVP (2005–2006)
Grantland (2011–2015)
ESPN GamePlan (1992–2015)
ESPN Full Court (2007–2015)
ESPN PPV (1999–2015)
ESPN HS (1997–2012)





Sports broadcasting rights



ESPN College Football
High School Showcase
ESPN Major League Baseball
ESPN College Basketball
MLS Soccer Sunday
Monday Night Football
CFL on TSN
NBA on ESPN
WNBA on ESPN
List of ESPN sports properties





Other properties



ESPNcricinfo
FCS Kickoff
FiveThirtyEight
Jayski's Silly Season Site
ESPN FC
ESPNscrum
Scouts Inc.
TrueHoop
The Undefeated





Notable personalities



Current personalities
Former personalities
ESPNews personalities
ESPNU personalities
ESPN Radio personalities





Miscellaneous



History
Criticism
This is SportsCenter
ESPN Zone
ESPN Wide World of Sports Complex






Owners: Disney Media Networks 80% Hearst Corporation 20%










v
t
e


Sports television in the United States



Broadcast
divisions




English



CBS Sports
ESPN on ABC
Fox Sports
NBC Sports
Stadium
Turner Sports





Spanish



Azteca Deportes
Telemundo Deportes (Telemundo/Universo)
Univision Deportes








National
channels




English



beIN Sports
CBS Sports Network
ESPN

ESPN2


FS1

FS2


NBCSN

Olympic Channel







Spanish



beIN Sports en Español
ESPN Deportes
Fox Deportes
Univision Deportes Network








Specialty
channels




College



Big Ten Network
ESPNU
Fox College Sports
Pac-12 Network
SEC Network





Single sport



Cricket TicketO
ESPN College Extra
ESPN Goal Line & Bases LoadedP
Fox Soccer PlusP
GOL TV
Golf Channel
In DemandP
MAVTV
MLB Network
MLB Extra InningsO
MLB Strike ZoneP
MLS Direct KickO
NBA League PassO
NBA TV
NFL Network
NFL RedZoneP
NFL Sunday TicketO
NHL Network
NHL Center IceO
Tennis Channel
TVG

TVG2


Willow
Ride TV





Outdoors



The Cowboy Channel
Frost Great Outdoors
Outdoor Channel

Sportsman Channel
World Fishing Network


Pursuit Channel





Other



Eleven Sports Network
ESPN Classic
ESPNews
ESPN PPVP








Syndicators



ACC Network (Raycom Sports)
ESPN Events





Broadband



Fox Sports Go
Global Wrestling Network
MLB.tv
UFC Fight Pass
WatchESPN (ESPN3; ACC Network Extra)
WWE Network
WWNLive





Video on demand



The Ski Channel
Surf Channel












v
t
e


Regional sports television networks in the United States



AT&T SportsNet



Pittsburgh
Rocky Mountain
Southwest
Root Sports Northwest (part-ownership)





Fox Sports Networks



Arizona
Detroit
Florida / Sun
Midwest

Indiana
Kansas City


North
Ohio / SportsTime Ohio
Southeast / South

Carolinas
Tennessee


Southwest

Oklahoma
New Orleans


West / Prime Ticket

San Diego


Wisconsin
YES Network





NBC Sports Regional Networks
(Comcast)



Bay Area
Boston
California
Chicago
Northwest

Oregon Sports Network


Washington
Philadelphia





Spectrum Sports
(Charter)



Florida
Kansas City
Los Angeles

SportsNet/Deportes
SportsNet LA


SportsNet New York (part ownership)
Ohio
Wisconsin





Independents



Altitude Sports
Buckeye Cable Sports
BYUtv Sports
Cox Sports TV
FiOS1
Longhorn Network
Mid-Atlantic Sports
Midco Sports
MSG Network

Plus
Western NY


NESN
SportsNet NY
SWX Right Now















v
t
e


Defunct television sports networks in the United States



National



America One
American Sports Classics
American Sports Network
Back9Network
Baseball Network
Big 12 Network
CNN SI
ESPN 3D
Football Network
Fox Soccer
Lorimar Sports Network
Mizlou
NASCAR Hot Pass
NewSport
One World Sports
ONTV
SEC TV
Speed
SportsChannel America
Sports Network
Universal Sports Network





Regional



4SD
Carolinas SE
Cox Sports
Empire
Hawkvision
MountainWest
PASS Sports
Prime
PRISM
Royals Sports
SportsChannel LA
Sportsvision
Sports Time
Victory





Out-of-market



ESPN Full Court
ESPN GamePlan
Mega March Madness












O. Out-of-market sports packages
P. Premium channel











 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Longhorn_Network&oldid=811333750"					
Categories: Big 12 Conference broadcastingESPN media outletsTexas LonghornsTelevision channels and stations established in 2011Sports television networks in the United StatesEnglish-language television stations in the United StatesAmerican television networksCollege sports television networksCollege basketball on television in the United StatesGridiron football on televisionHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback linksOfficial website different in Wikidata and Wikipedia 
