Los Angeles Center Studios - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

Los Angeles Center Studios, located in the Westlake District of Los Angeles, California, is a multipurpose facility in the former Unocal Center building (opened as Union Oil Center in April 1958) next to the 110 Freeway. Architect William Pereira designed what was the headquarters of Union Oil Company of California. The studio itself was opened in 1999, three years after Union Oil Company of California vacated the premises.
The converted building now includes six film production sound stages and areas available as theatres or for events. It is located near W. 6th Street and Beaudry Avenue; the main gate's address is 450 South Bixel Street.[1] Most film and TV production facilities in the Los Angeles region are located either in suburbs of the city (such as Hollywood itself) or adjacent cities like Burbank and Culver City; Los Angeles Center Studios is one of the only facilities actually located near downtown L.A.




Charlie Crews, the protagonist on the American Television serial "Life", views the "Bank of Los Angeles" from a nearby rooftop


The Los Angeles Center Studios is where many films and shows have been filmed.
The building itself has played roles in several TV shows: in Cold Case, as the Philadelphia Police Department; in Numb3rs as the Los Angeles FBI field office, in TNT's Legends it houses the FBI's "Deep Cover Operations" (DCO) unit, and in Life as the "Bank of Los Angeles" (with that title on the south face of the tower in huge letters.). It is also the external facade of the hospital in the movie Constantine.
References[edit]



^ "About Us". Los Angeles Center Studios. Retrieved 26 June 2012. 



External links[edit]

"Official website". Los Angeles Center Studios. 
"Los Angeles Center Studios". Downtown Los Angeles Walking. Dana and David Dornsife College of Letters, Arts, and Science, University of Southern California. Retrieved 26 June 2012. 
"Lights, camera, plenty of action at downtown Los Angeles Center Studios". Company Town. Los Angeles Times. Retrieved 29 August 2014. 

Coordinates: 34°03′19″N 118°15′40″W﻿ / ﻿34.055393°N 118.26109°W﻿ / 34.055393; -118.26109






v
t
e


Downtown Los Angeles



Districts and
neighborhoods



Arts District
Bunker Hill
Chinatown
Civic Center
Fashion District
Financial District
Gallery Row
Historic Core
Jewelry District
Little Tokyo
Naud Junction
Old Bank District
Skid Row
South Park
Spring Street Financial District
Toy District
Wholesale District








Points of interest



Angels Flight
The Broad
Broadway
Cathedral of Our Lady of the Angels
City Hall
Convention Center
Grand Park
L.A. Live
MOCA
Music Center
Olvera Street
Pershing Square
Staples Center
Union Station









LA Regions
Crescenta Valley
Downtown
Eastside
Harbor Area
Greater Hollywood
Northeast LA
Northwest LA
San Fernando Valley
South LA
Westside
Wilshire

Mid-City West
Mid-Wilshire












This article about a building or structure in Los Angeles is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.


v
t
e









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Los_Angeles_Center_Studios&oldid=763997601"					
Categories: Buildings and structures in Downtown Los AngelesOffice buildings in Los AngelesTelevision studios in the United StatesBuildings and structures completed in 19601960 establishments in California1960s architecture in the United StatesWilliam Pereira buildingsUnion Oil Company of CaliforniaLos Angeles building and structure stubsHidden categories: Coordinates on WikidataAll stub articles 
