Madonna on Late Show with David Letterman - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search





Madonna's heavily censored appearance on Late Show with David Letterman led to some of Letterman's highest late-night viewership.


Madonna made an appearance on Late Show with David Letterman on March 31, 1994. The appearance was noted for an extremely controversial series of statements and antics by Madonna, which included many expletives. In particular, Madonna said the word "fuck" fourteen times during the course of the interview. This made the episode the most censored in American network television talk-show history while at the same time garnering Letterman some of the best ratings he ever received.[1]
Madonna's language and behavior—which was provocative, seemingly spontaneous at times, full of double entendres, and ended with a playful refusal to leave the set—caused a large public controversy.[2] The Federal Communications Commission received numerous complaints about the language used on the show, echoing Letterman's (sarcastic) remark that she had to stop using the bad language "because people don't want that in their own homes at 11:30 at night".



Contents


1 Details

1.1 Refusal to leave the stage


2 Aftermath

2.1 Subsequent appearances


3 References
4 External links



Details[edit]
This was not Madonna's first or last appearance with Letterman. She was a guest on Late Night with David Letterman in 1988 with comedian Sandra Bernhard. This was, however, her first appearance since Letterman moved from NBC to CBS in 1993.
When Madonna was a guest on the March 31, 1994 edition of The Late Show, it marked her first appearance on American television that year. Letterman introduced Madonna right before she entered the set in this manner:

Our first guest tonight is one of the biggest stars in the world, and in the past 10 years she has sold over 80 million albums, starred in countless films and slept with some of the biggest names in the entertainment industry.

Paul Shaffer responded "she's your guest!...Come on, she's your guest!" to which Letterman responded, "everything's fine, just relax, will ya?" Madonna then entered the stage to the sound of her 1983 hit "Holiday", clutching a pair of her underwear, which she asked Letterman to smell during the interview. "Wait a minute, aren't you gonna smell them?" she said, to which Letterman replied "I'll take care of that later," and Madonna complained to the audience "I gave him my underpants and he won't smell them!"[3][4] This sketch made the headlines of the tabloids.[5][6] The sketch was satirized in 2001 in the Italian late night show Satyricon, where guest Anna Falchi actually took off her red panties on stage, and the host went all the way to smell them, which caused scandal in Italy.[7][8]
Letterman, following up from events earlier in the program, asked her to kiss a man in the audience; Madonna refused. Letterman expressed admiration for her not succumbing to the pressure. Madonna began smoking a cigar, and as he moved to another topic, Madonna interrupted him, in an opening salvo soon to be indicative of the random provocations to come: "Incidentally, you are a sick fuck. I don't know why I get so much shit."
Letterman steered his questioning toward her private life and, in particular, the singer's reported relationships with several NBA players. Madonna replied with a series of sexual innuendos, commenting "that [overhead] microphone is really long"; Letterman responded by talking about her friendship with Charles Barkley. When Letterman abruptly changed topic and asked about her nose ring in an ambiguous way ("Did it hurt when you had that thing put in, uh, put in your nose?"), Madonna laughed and said "I thought you were going to ask me if it hurt something else..." which spurred a collective series of nervous laughter from the studio audience.
Prior to the first commercial break (which Madonna objected to, citing that she wanted to "break the rules" and not conform to the constraints of American network television), the star asked Letterman if he was wearing a "rug"; never missing the opportunity for a joke, the host, referring to Madonna's short slicked-down hairstyle, replied by asking Madonna if she was wearing a swim cap.
After the commercial break, Madonna told Letterman that he had changed since her last visit, that he was no longer "cool" or challenging to his guests, that "Money's made you soft."[6] Letterman asked her what was really bothering her; the star told the audience that she was angry that the comedian always (in Letterman's words – "periodically") made references to her sex life on the show.
Toward the end of the interview, she also asked whether he had ever smoked "endo," a slang reference to marijuana. Looking uncomfortable, the host told the singer that he had no idea what she was talking about; Madonna called him a liar which led Letterman to make light of the embarrassing question by acting like Johnny Carson.
Refusal to leave the stage[edit]
When Madonna refused to leave the set,[6] there was jeering from members of the audience, including heckling to "get off". The home audience never saw Madonna leave her chair; instead, the show cut to a third commercial break, after which the singer was gone. Letterman said, "Coming up in the next half hour, Mother Teresa is going to drop by." He then looked at an index card and joked, "Oh, I see we've been canceled, there is no show tomorrow night."
Another guest, who was the United States Grocery Bagging Champion at the time, was scheduled to appear on the show that evening, but his segment was cut, due to Madonna refusing to leave the stage when her interview was over. Counting Crows concluded the show with a performance of "Round Here".
Aftermath[edit]
Madonna later explained her behavior as a failed attempt to make a stand against television censorship, and made up with Letterman by having him escort her onstage at the 1994 MTV Video Music Awards. In an interview with Bob Guccione, Jr. in Spin magazine in the fall of 1995, Madonna further defended herself:

You can show a person getting blown up, and you can't say 'fuck'? It's such hypocrisy. The fact that everyone counted how many fucks I said—how small minded is that?...The other thing that was ridiculous was that David Letterman knew I was going to do it. I talked to the producers of the show. Everybody was like, this will be really funny if you say "fuck" a lot they'll just keep bleeping you. Well, I came out and started doing it, and David freaked out. The way he introduced me was derogatory, so my whole thing was, okay, if that's how you want to play it, you cannot beat me at this game.[9]

In a subsequent interview with USA Today, Letterman noted how Madonna sent him a fax on his birthday, shortly after the episode aired. "It was more of the same," he revealed. "'Happy fucking birthday. Have a nice fucking day.' I know she was trying to be funny about it."[10] The fax sent April 12, 1994, reads:

"Happy Fucking Birthday Dave!
glad you could get so much mileage out of the fucking show. Next time you need some Fucking publicity, just give me a fucking call.
love
the anti-christ
M. xx"[11]

The incident was widely referenced in popular culture. For example, in an episode of The Critic titled "Sherman, Woman and Child", Madonna is featured as a profane guest of Humphrey the Hippo, a parody of Barney & Friends.[12][13] In the Space Ghost Coast to Coast episode "Bobcat," comedian Bobcat Goldthwait sarcastically comments to the character Moltar that Space Ghost's interview with The Ramones "is going as well as the Letterman-Madonna interview."[14]
Subsequent appearances[edit]
Following the incident, Madonna's appearances on Letterman did not end. Madonna briefly appeared in a 1995 episode when she brought Letterman candy and flowers for Valentine's Day. She then proclaimed that, "I'm a changed woman since I met you," to which Letterman excitedly exclaimed, "Yes!" Madonna then went on to add, "And I'm not going to say 'fuck' anymore." And in 1998, Madonna appeared briefly to announce number three on Letterman's top ten list that night – "Ten Things Beautiful Women Love About Dave."
Madonna returned on November 3, 2000, for her first sit-down interview with Letterman since the notorious 1994 incident to promote her new album, Music. The two of them discussed the previous interview, with a deal of humor and objectivity. Madonna chalked it up as a part of her "rebellious period", while Letterman admitted that he now understood how beaten up Madonna must have felt by the press during that time and that he contributed to that. Madonna then concluded that they were both having a "weak moment", which was met by laughter from both the audience and Letterman. Before the singer took stage to perform her latest single, "Don't Tell Me", Letterman jokingly admitted that, "I still have the panties. We had to put them in the vault upstairs, because people were trying to swipe them from me." An uncomfortable Madonna declared that, "I won't rise to that bait."
Madonna guested again on November 11, 2003 to promote her children's book, Mr. Peabody's Apples. Before she entered, Letterman stated he "just didn't want any awkward moments."
On January 11, 2007, Madonna appeared on Letterman to promote her latest movie, Arthur and the Invisibles. The two joked about the 1994 infamous episode. When David asked Madonna, "What do you think about all these celebrities such as Britney Spears, not wearing their underwear?", Madonna replied, "It's freezing outside. Maybe you can give them to Britney."
Madonna appeared for the last time on September 30, 2009 to promote her latest release, the greatest hits compilation Celebration. During this episode, Letterman and Madonna again made light of her appearance on the show in 1994. The episode concluded with Letterman and Madonna going down the street and sharing a vegetarian pizza (minus cheese at Madonna's request) and martinis together.
References[edit]


1990s portal



TV Guide, September 17, 1998



^ Tucker, Ken. "Like Aversion: Madonna's shocking David Letterman interview – The pop-star's interview on the Late Show produces the show's highest ratings". Entertainment Weekly. Retrieved 26 January 2014. 
^ Time Magazine Don't F___ with Madonna Time.com
^ J. Randy Taraborrelli (2008) Madonna: An Intimate Biography, p.233
^ Georges-Claude Guilbert Madonna as Postmodern Myth: How One Star's Self-Construction Rewrites Sex ... p.98
^ Cross, Mary (2007) Madonna: A Biography p.61
^ a b c O'Brien, Lucy (2009) Madonna: Like an Icon p.198
^ Loris Mazzetti Il libro nero della Rai p.28
^ Enzo Biagi (2002) Cose loro e fatti nostri p.124
^ Spin Magazine interview
^ USA Today article, May 9, 1994
^ Lettersofnote.com
^ IMDB
^ YouTube – Humphrey the Hippo and Madonna
^ http://video.adultswim.com/space-ghost-coast-to-coast/im-zorak-ramone.html


External links[edit]

Episode summary from tv.com







v
t
e


Late Show



Shows



Late Show with David Letterman (1993–15)

notable episodes


The Late Show with Stephen Colbert (2015–present)

episodes

2015
2016
2017









Music



Paul Shaffer and the CBS Orchestra (1993–15)
Stay Human (2015–present)





Sketches



Letterman-era sketches

Top Ten List


Colbert-era sketches





See also



The Late Late Show
Madonna on Late Show












v
t
e


Madonna






Albums
Artists influenced
Awards
Books
Covers
Cultural impact
Fashion brands
Films
Performances
Records
Singles
Songs
Tribute albums
Unreleased songs
Videos
Works on Madonna





Studio albums



Madonna
Like a Virgin
True Blue
Like a Prayer
Erotica
Bedtime Stories
Ray of Light
Music
American Life
Confessions on a Dance Floor
Hard Candy
MDNA
Rebel Heart





Soundtrack albums



Who's That Girl
I'm Breathless
Evita





Compilation albums



Like a Virgin & Other Big Hits!
You Can Dance
The Immaculate Collection
Something to Remember
GHV2
Remixed & Revisited
Celebration
The Complete Studio Albums (1983–2008)





Music video releases



Madonna
The Immaculate Collection
The Video Collection 93:99
Celebration: The Video Collection





Live releases



Madonna Live: The Virgin Tour
Ciao Italia: Live from Italy
Blond Ambition World Tour Live
Truth or Dare (In Bed with Madonna)
The Girlie Show: Live Down Under
Drowned World Tour 2001
I'm Going to Tell You a Secret
The Confessions Tour
Sticky & Sweet Tour
MDNA World Tour
Rebel Heart Tour





Concerts and tours



The Virgin Tour
Who's That Girl World Tour
Blond Ambition World Tour
The Girlie Show World Tour
Drowned World Tour
Re-Invention World Tour
Confessions Tour
Sticky & Sweet Tour
The MDNA Tour (Controversy)
Rebel Heart Tour
Madonna: Tears of a Clown





Films directed



Filth and Wisdom
W.E.
secretprojectrevolution





Documentaries



Truth or Dare (In Bed with Madonna)
I'm Going to Tell You a Secret
I Am Because We Are





Television



Madonna on Late Show with David Letterman
Super Bowl XLVI halftime show





Books



Sex
The English Roses





Companies and brands



Maverick
Raising Malawi
Hard Candy Fitness
Truth or Dare by Madonna





Works about Madonna



"Like a Surgeon"
Medusa: Dare to Be Truthful
"If Madonna Calls"
Madonna: An Intimate Biography
Madonna
"She's Madonna"
Madonna: Like an Icon
Through the Wilderness
"The Power of Madonna" (Soundtrack)
Strike a Pose
Madonnaland





Related articles



Breakfast Club
Pre-Madonna
Sean Penn
Guy Ritchie
Madonna as a gay icon
Madonna Studies
Madonna wannabe
Radio 1 Madonna controversy








 Book
 Category
 Portal










 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Madonna_on_Late_Show_with_David_Letterman&oldid=796234346"					
Categories: 1994 controversies1994 in American television1994 in New York CityLate Show with David LettermanInterviewsMadonna (entertainer)March 1994 eventsMedia-related controversies in the United StatesObscenity controversies in televisionTelevision controversies in the United States 
