Magnolia Hill Productions - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search








This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages)







The neutrality of this article is disputed. Please do not remove this message until conditions to do so are met. (February 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)









The topic of this article may not meet Wikipedia's notability guidelines for companies and organizations. Please help to establish notability by citing reliable secondary sources that are independent of the topic and provide significant coverage of it beyond its mere trivial mention. If notability cannot be established, the article is likely to be merged, redirected, or deleted.
Find sources: "Magnolia Hill Productions" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (February 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)









This article relies too much on references to primary sources. Please improve this by adding secondary or tertiary sources. (February 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)









This article is an orphan, as no other articles link to it. Please introduce links to this page from related articles; try the Find link tool for suggestions. (January 2017)





(Learn how and when to remove this template message)




Magnolia Hill Productions


Type

Production Company


Industry
Entertainment


Founded
2013


Founder
Sam Haskell



Key people




Sam Haskell
Josh Hunter Rogers





Website
http://magnoliahillproductions.com


Magnolia Hill Productions, more commonly known as Magnolia Hill, is a film and television production company founded by Sam Haskell, former William Morris Worldwide Head of Television. Haskell hired Josh Hunter Rogers to run development. The company currently has an exclusive deal with WBTV.
Established in 2013, in a development deal with Warner Bros television and Sam Haskell, founder, Magnolia Hill was created to bring forth content that is lacking in today's television climate. Magnolia Hill announced a development deal with NBCUniversal for four TV movies based on the songs, stories, and the life of Dolly Parton. The first picture, Coat of Many Colors, aired on December 10 drawing more than 13 million live viewers making it the most viewed film on broadcast TV in over five years.[citation needed]
As of February, 2017, Magnolia Hill Productions has six projects under development:[1]

Dolly Parton's Jolene
Dolly Parton's The Seeker
Untitled NBC Dolly Parton Project #5
NBC Dolly Parton Music Special #1
NBC Dolly Parton Music Special #2
The Little Foxes (film) Television Remake

Filmography[edit]


Year
Project
Director


2016
Dolly Parton's Christmas of Many Colors: Circle of Love[2]
Stephen Herek


2015
Dolly Parton's Coat of Many Colors[3]
Stephen Herek


References[edit]



^ "Projects". Magnolia Hill Productions. 2015-12-10. Retrieved 2017-02-24. 
^ "Watch Christmas of Many Colors "Dolly Parton's Christmas of Many Colors: Circle of Love" Episode". NBC.com. 2016-11-30. Retrieved 2017-02-24. 
^ "Coat of Many Colors". NBC.com. Retrieved 2017-02-24. 



External links[edit]

Magnolia Hill Productions
Sam Haskell
Josh Hunter Rogers




This television-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.


v
t
e









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Magnolia_Hill_Productions&oldid=776349506"					
Categories: Film production companies of the United StatesTelevision production companies of the United StatesTelevision stubsHidden categories: NPOV disputes from February 2017All NPOV disputesArticles with topics of unclear notability from February 2017All articles with topics of unclear notabilityArticles lacking reliable references from February 2017All articles lacking reliable referencesOrphaned articles from January 2017All orphaned articlesAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from February 2017All stub articles 
