Method & Red - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

This article is about the television series. For the stars of the series, see Method Man & Redman.






This article does not cite any sources. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (September 2011) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)





Method & Red



Promotional poster



Created by
Kell Cahoon
Method Man


Starring
Method Man
Redman
Anna Maria Horsford
Beth Littleford
David Henrie
Jeremiah Birkett
Lahmard Tate
Peter Jacobson


Country of origin
United States


Original language(s)
English


No. of seasons
1


No. of episodes
13 (4 unaired)


Production


Camera setup
Single-camera


Running time
30 minutes


Production company(s)
If I Can Productions
Method Man Enterprises
Background Action, Inc.
Regency Television
20th Century Fox Television


Distributor
20th Television


Release


Original network
Fox


Original release
000000002017-06-16-0000June 16 – September 15, 2004 (2004-09-15)


Method & Red, sometimes written Meth and Red, is an American television sitcom that ran on Fox from June 16 to August 25, 2004. It starred hip hop recording artists Method Man & Redman, portraying fictionalized versions of themselves who move to a predominantly white upper-class suburb in New Jersey.
Fox cancelled the show with 4 of the 13 episodes remaining unaired after heated meetings with Method Man & Redman, who were not pleased with the show. The duo publicly criticized Fox several times after this.
Method Man was disappointed about the series for having a laugh track and Fox doing a bad job on editing. He had wanted it to be in the vein of Arrested Development, of which he is a fan.
Cast[edit]

Method Man as Himself
Redman as Himself
Anna Maria Horsford as Dorothy
Beth Littleford as Nancy Blaford
David Henrie as Skyler Blaford
Jeremiah Birkett as Dupree
Lahmard Tate as Lil' Bit
Peter Jacobson as Bill Blaford

Episodes[edit]


Series #
Title
Directed by
Written by
Original air date
Production code


1
"Pilot"
Jeff Melman
Teleplay by: Kell Cahoon
Story by: Kell Cahoon & Method Man
June 16, 2004 (2004-06-16)
11-04-178


Hip hop recording artists Method Man and Redman move into a predominantly white suburb in New Jersey (along with Method Man's mother Dorothea, and two friends Lil Bit and Dupree). When the pair violates neighborhood association rules from throwing a wild party and face eviction, they attempt to use kindness (and fruitcake) to endear themselves to their new neighbors. In particular, they meet their family neighbors the Blafords: Nancy (whom they call "Neighbor Lady" throughout the whole series instead of Nancy), her husband Bill and their son Skyler.


2
"The Article"
Lev L. Spiro
Carter Bays & Craig Thomas
June 23, 2004 (2004-06-23)
MAR-102


Concerned that magazine writer Keith Debeetham (Dale Godboldo) will portray them as "soft" (which he previously did to 50 Cent) now that they live in the suburbs, Method and Red grill Keith every chance they get so that he knows that they are "still hood". At the same time, Meth and Red promised Skyler that they will appear at his birthday party and he tells everyone at his school. Lil Bit warns Meth and Red that they won't "look too hood, sitting there eating birthday cake, with a bunch of White suburban kids". On top of that, Keith Debeetham reveals one reason he gave 50 Cent a bad review is because he still lives with his mother. The pair have to find a way to 1. Not let Keith know that Dorthy is Meth's mom. 2. Attend Skyler's party. 3. Convince Keith that they have not changed since moving to the suburbs.


3
"Well Well Well"
Peter Lauer
Phil Lord and Christopher Miller
July 21, 2004 (2004-07-21)
MAR-103


As Dorothea's 25th anniversary at work approaches, Redman promises to get Chaka Khan to perform at her party. Meanwhile, Nancy is blasting her Kenny Loggins music from her house which angers Meth because he has a personal grudge against Kenny. While setting up for the party, Meth and Red suck up all the power from the neighborhood for their own home. Nancy calls electric company agents and they shut Meth's and Red power off. Meth must find a way to get the power back on in time for his Mom's party. Singers Chaka Khan and Kenny Loggins appear as themselves.


4
"One Tree Hill"
Tamra Davis
Josh Bycel & Jonathan Fener
July 7, 2004 (2004-07-07)
MAR-105


Dorthy is caring for a cherry tree of hers which she has kept since their old neighborhood, but Nancy tells her that there is a neighborhood law that states "exotics are prohibited" and that her tree will be cut down .Method and Red go to a personal lawyer and ask about the law to which there are told they could have changed the law a month ago when it was their turn to become Neighborhood Association Presidents (a rotating one month position that lets a homeowner do what they please). It is revealed that Nancy did not tell Meth and Red about it purposely because she does not want them to be presidents. Meth and Red gain the position anyway and soon become power hungry and perform many crazy activities and have several fun moments.....everything except changing the law concerning Dorthy's tree.


5
"Dogs"
Michael Lange
Ira Ungerleider
July 14, 2004 (2004-07-14)
MAR-106


Method and Red seek to build a sports arena (the Methodome at the Redowlands) before NBA basketball star Yao Ming whom they are rivals with because Red caused Yao an injury in the past. Nancy's husband Bill is a businessman, so red asks him does he know any investors that can help pay for the $500 million stadium. Bill tells them of an investor named Carrie Norris (Carmen Electra). Dorothea forces Meth to have a talk with Skyler after the boy is unduly influenced by one of his music videos. Meth goes to Skyler's school and talks to the principal but ends up slapping her on the behind which causes everyone at the school to start doing it. Meth is now viewed as a negative influence across the nation. Meth and Red must now clear Meth's image and try to get the money for the stadium.


6
"Kill Bill Vol. 3"
Michael Spiller
Tom Saunders
July 21, 2004 (2004-07-21)
MAR-107


Method and Red pit Nancy and Bill Blaford against each other as a part of a plan to use the Blafords' porch for their Miss Ghetto USA beauty pageant. Nancy immediately says no, but Bill says yes after Meth and Red go to him afterwards. Nancy gets furious with Bill for this and kicks him out, so he stays with Meth and Red. When the ladies arrive for the pageant, Bill suddenly starts to get on everyone's nerves (bugging Dorthy while she's watching a soap opera. throwing out Meth's marijuana, and stopping Red from getting any sexual action with the women). The guys must decide if they want to throw Bill out or keep him in the house until the pageant is over, but their patience is very low.


7
"Something About Brenda"
Michael Spiller
Teri Schaffer & Raynelle Swilling
July 28, 2004 (2004-07-28)
MAR-104


Method Man falls hard for Brenda Biscoe (Elise Neal) Bill 's attractive co-worker and the mother of Skyler's love interest Morgan. She rejects him at first but starts to get attracted after he lies and says he hikes and goes to church (two of Brenda's hobbies). Red bets Meth that if he doesn't get with Brenda then he has to buy Red a new car. Meth eventually starts to fall for Brenda and vice versa ,to the disgust of Nancy who knows Brenda as well. Red and Dorthy then conspire a plan to get rid of Brenda as Meth starts spending way more time with Brenda than with them two.


8
"Neighborhood Watch"
Victor Nelli, Jr.
Clarence Livingston
September 8, 2004 (2004-09-08)
MAR-111


Lil Bit and Dupree invite the circus to Meth and Red's home without their permission. Meth orders them to get the circus away but suddenly a rash of burglaries strikes the neighborhood. Nancy forms a neighborhood watch and finds herself patrolling with Method Man. Red's addiction to video games weakens his eyesight and he spends most of his time sexually cuddling with his partner instead of looking for the burglar. Meth and Nancy end up bickering with each other when Meth and Red accuse Nancy's son Skylar of being the burglar. They both have to put their differences aside so that no more robberies would occur.


9
"Chu Chu's Redemption"
Dennis Dugan
Raynelle Swilling
September 15, 2004 (2004-09-15)
MAR-110


Method and Red try to keep an old friend in prison (Charles Chesterfield Hillfont/Chu Chu) from finding out about his girlfriend Rose's new line of work. Chu Chu asked Meth and Red to look out for his girlfriend while he is locked up but both of them have forgotten about her for years. They invite her to stay at their house until Chu Chu gets out. Meanwhile,Dorthy forces the boys to help Skyler build a car for the soap box derby. Meth and Red try their best to avoid Skyler because they have been trying to get away from Skyler since meeting him and not spend time with him. Meth and Red bribe him with hundreds of dollars to leave them alone every time he comes over and asks for their help with the car. Now the boys have to take care of Rose and get Skyler to leave them alone.


10
"Da Shootout"
Lev L. Spiro
Phil Lord & Christopher Miller
Unaired (Unaired)
MAR-108


Rival hip-hop artist Fear (Fredro Starr) moves into a better gated community and lures Method and Red's ace TV repairman away from them, so the duo challenges him to a neighborhood basketball game. NBA basketball players Devean George and Corey Maggette appears as themselves.


11
"How Momma Got Her Groove Back"
Peter Lauer
Raynelle Swilling
Unaired (Unaired)
MAR-109


Dorothea opens a hair salon in the game room. An expensive diamond necklace that Red borrowed from a German jeweler goes missing.


12
"A House Apart"
Peter Lauer
Phil Lord & Christopher Miller
Unaired (Unaired)
MAR-112


No longer able to stand Dorothea's constant nagging, Red buys his own mansion in Nottingshire Estates, just as Nancy tries to become "Real Estate Agent of the Year." Tommy Chong appears as himself.


13
"Methodome"
Michael Lange
Tom Saunders
Unaired (Unaired)
MAR-113


Method Man's theme park Methodome opens.


External links[edit]

Method & Red on IMDb
Method & Red at TV.com







v
t
e


Method Man






Discography
Videography
Filmography





Studio albums



Tical (1994)
Tical 2000: Judgement Day (1998)
Tical 0: The Prequel (2004)
4:21... The Day After (2006)
The Meth Lab (2015)





Collaboration albums



Blackout! (with Redman) (1999)
Blackout! 2 (with Redman) (2009)
Wu-Massacre (with Raekwon and Ghostface Killah) (2010)





Compilations



Back to Back: Raw & Uncut (2008)





Singles



"Bring the Pain"
"I'll Be There for You/You're All I Need to Get By"
"How High"
"The Riddler"
"Hit 'Em High (The Monstars' Anthem)"
"Judgement Day"
"Part II"
"Say"
"A-Yo"
"Mrs. International"





Featured singles



"Ice Cream"
"4, 3, 2, 1"
"The Worst"
"Symphony 2000"
"Left & Right"
"N 2 Gether Now"
"Love @ 1st Sight"
"Still on It"
"Trillmatic"





Related articles



Wu-Tang Clan
Method Man & Redman
How High
Method & Red
Cheese Wagstaff
Dustin Lee Abraham












v
t
e


Redman




Discography



Studio albums



Whut? Thee Album
Dare Iz a Darkside
Muddy Waters
Doc's da Name 2000
Malpractice
Red Gone Wild
Reggie
Mudface





Collaboration albums



El Niño (with Def Squad)
Blackout! (with Method Man)
Blackout! 2 (with Method Man)





Singles



"Blow Your Mind"
"Time 4 Sum Aksion"
"Tonight's da Night"
"Rockafella"
"Can't Wait"
"How High"
"Funkorama"
"Whateva Man"
"Pick It Up"
"Full Cooperation"
"I'll Bee Dat!"
"Da Rockwilder"
"Let's Get Dirty (I Can't Get in da Club)"
"Part II"
"Put It Down"
"A-Yo"
"Mrs. International"





Featured artist



"Head Banger"
"4, 3, 2, 1"
"Made It Back"
"How Deep Is Your Love"
"Symphony 2000"
"Left & Right"
"Oooh."
"React"
"Dirrty"
"Yeah Yeah U Know It"





Related articles



Def Squad
Hit Squad
Method Man & Redman
Wu-Tang Clan
How High
Method & Red










 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Method_%26_Red&oldid=800040191"					
Categories: 2000s American comedy television series2004 American television series debuts2004 American television series endingsAfrican-American televisionAmerican television sitcomsBlack sitcomsEnglish-language television programsFox network showsCultural depictions of peopleHip hop televisionTelevision shows set in New JerseySingle-camera television sitcomsTelevision series by 20th Century Fox TelevisionHidden categories: Articles lacking sources from September 2011All articles lacking sources 
