Metro Chinese Network - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search








This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages)







This article is an orphan, as no other articles link to it. Please introduce links to this page from related articles; try the Find link tool for suggestions. (September 2014)









This article does not cite any sources. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (September 2010) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)









The topic of this article may not meet Wikipedia's notability guidelines for companies and organizations. Please help to establish notability by citing reliable secondary sources that are independent of the topic and provide significant coverage of it beyond its mere trivial mention. If notability cannot be established, the article is likely to be merged, redirected, or deleted.
Find sources: "Metro Chinese Network" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (September 2010) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)





(Learn how and when to remove this template message)



Metro Chinese Network is a Rockville, Maryland-based Chinese-language TV station. It occupied DTV channel 30.3 in Greater Washington, DC area. Their content comes from Chinese Mainland, Taiwan, Hong Kong, including concerts, dancing, and contemporary TV series. It broadcast 20/7. As of October 1, 2011, the free OTA network had stopped broadcasting due to budget difficulties.




 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Metro_Chinese_Network&oldid=757864463"					
Categories: American television networksAsian-American culture in MarylandChinese-language televisionCompanies based in Rockville, MarylandHong Kong-American cultureTaiwanese-American cultureHidden categories: Orphaned articles from September 2014All orphaned articlesArticles lacking sources from September 2010All articles lacking sourcesArticles with topics of unclear notability from September 2010All articles with topics of unclear notability 
