National Association of Educational Broadcasters - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search







This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (December 2014) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)



The National Association of Educational Broadcasters (NAEB) was founded as the Association of College University Broadcasting Stations (ACUBS) in 1925.[1]
In September 1934, the organization rewrote its constitution, and changed its name from the Association of College University Broadcasting Stations (ACUBS) to the "National Association of Educational Broadcasters."[1]
In 1938, NAEB persuaded the Federal Communications Commission to reserve five radio channels for educational broadcasting.
In 1945 the FCC reserved five of the 40 channels in new high-frequency band for Non-commercial educational stations. There were initially planned to be AM services; however, they eventually manifested as FM ones.
NAEB merged with the Association of Education by Radio-Television in 1956. It was reorganized in 1963 with two new divisions, Educational Television Stations and National Educational Radio. These divisions lasted until 1973, when they were diminished. Their roles were taken over by Public Broadcasting Service (PBS) and Association of Public Radio Stations respectively.[2] The Association of Public Radio Stations (APRS) became the "Washington lobby and public relations arm of CPB-qualified radio stations."[2] The Association of Public Radio Stations (APRS) merged with National Public Radio (NPR) in 1977, which allowed NPR to provide "leadership of a full-fledged membership organization providing member stations with training, program promotion and management, and representing the interests of public radio stations before Congress, the FCC and other regulatory organizations."[3] Before this merger, National Public Radio (NPR) was "largely a production and distribution center," so the merger was influential in making National Public Radio (NPR) what it is today.[3]
Until it folded in 1981, NAEB was public broadcasting's primary voice, forum and program distributor.
See also[edit]

American Archive of Public Broadcasting
National Educational Radio Network
National Public Radio

References[edit]


^ a b Seattler, Paul (2004). The evolution of American educational technology. Information Age Publishing Inc. pp. 217ff. ISBN 1-59311-139-8. 
^ a b Engelman, R. (1996). Public radio and television in America a political history. Thousand Oaks, Calif.: Sage Publications.
^ a b Soundscapes: The Evolution and Challenges of National Public Radio. (Fall 2006). Carnegie Results


Further reading[edit]

"National Association of Educational Broadcasters (NAEB)". National Public Broadcasting Archives. Archived from the original on 23 June 2012. Retrieved 5 September 2013. 

Full documention: National Public Broadcasting Archives, University of Maryland Libraries http://www.lib.umd.edu/special/collections/massmedia/publicandeducationalbroadcasting

A History of Public Broadcasting: Witherspoon, Kovitz, Avery, Stavitsky. 2000, Current Publishing Committee, Washington, DC. ISBN 0-9677463-0-2.





This broadcasting-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.


v
t
e








This article relating to education in the United States is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.


v
t
e









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=National_Association_of_Educational_Broadcasters&oldid=787334475"					
Categories: Public broadcasting in the United States1925 establishments in the United States1981 disestablishments in the United StatesRadio organizations in the United StatesTelevision organizations in the United StatesEducational broadcastingBroadcasting stubsUnited States education stubsHidden categories: Articles needing additional references from December 2014All articles needing additional referencesAll stub articles 
