National Association of Telecommunications Officers and Advisors - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search







The topic of this article may not meet Wikipedia's general notability guideline. Please help to establish notability by citing reliable secondary sources that are independent of the topic and provide significant coverage of it beyond its mere trivial mention. If notability cannot be established, the article is likely to be merged, redirected, or deleted.
Find sources: "National Association of Telecommunications Officers and Advisors" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (June 2009) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)



The National Association of Telecommunications Officers and Advisors (NATOA) is an American national trade association based in Alexandria, VA. The stated purpose of the organization is to assist with the communications needs and interests of local governments, and those who advise local governments.
The Association is known for issuing The Government Programming Awards. The stated purpose of the Awards is to recognize excellence in broadcast, multimedia and electronic programming produced by local Public, educational, and government access (PEG) cable TV agencies. They have been issued for the past 21 years and are often brought up by various US State and Federal government organizations.
See also[edit]

Cable television in the United States
Public-access television
Educational-access television
Government-access television
List of public-access TV stations in the United States

References[edit]

External links[edit]

Official web site





This article about a professional association is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.


v
t
e









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=National_Association_of_Telecommunications_Officers_and_Advisors&oldid=555490944"					
Categories: Cable television in the United StatesIndustry trade groups based in the United StatesProfessional association stubsHidden categories: Articles with topics of unclear notability from June 2009All articles with topics of unclear notabilityAll stub articles 
