NJVID - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search








This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages)







This article is an orphan, as no other articles link to it. Please introduce links to this page from related articles; try the Find link tool for suggestions. (October 2012)









This article includes a list of references, related reading or external links, but its sources remain unclear because it lacks inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (October 2012) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)









A major contributor to this article appears to have a close connection with its subject. It may require cleanup to comply with Wikipedia's content policies, particularly neutral point of view. Please discuss further on the talk page. (October 2012) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)





(Learn how and when to remove this template message)



NJVID is a digital video repository service for streaming and preservation of academic and research videos for higher education.
History[edit]
NJVid started out as a project funded by a grant from the Institute of Museum and Library Services that aimed at creating a statewide digital video portal and central storage repository in New Jersey. The grant was aimed at providing a common online platform for presenting, accessing, hosting and archiving institutions' licensed and locally produced videos that educate and enlighten viewers in support of online teaching and learning. NJVid was to accommodate three overall collections of videos: locally owned videos that can be viewed and shared by all, commercially licensed videos, and noncommercial videos to which institutions provide members-only access.
Present[edit]
Over the years NJVID has reduced the need to acquire hard copies of video titles from commercial video vendors. Doing so will diminish physical video redundancy among Media Centers across the state. This in turn has shortened acquisition time periods, increase access possibilities for end-users, and decrease staff workload and overall institutional expenditures.
External links[edit]

Official website





 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=NJVID&oldid=692975172"					
Categories: Film archives in the United StatesEducation in New JerseyTelevision archives in the United StatesHidden categories: Orphaned articles from October 2012All orphaned articlesArticles lacking in-text citations from October 2012All articles lacking in-text citationsWikipedia articles with possible conflicts of interest from October 2012 
