Ovation (U.S. TV channel) - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

Not to be confused with Ovation (Australian TV channel).






This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (January 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)





Ovation





Launched
April 21, 1996


Owned by
Privately held; independent
Investors include:
Hubbard Media Group
Corporate Partners II
Arcadia Investment Partners
Perry Capital
The Weinstein Company


Picture format
1080i (HDTV)
(HD feed downgraded to letterboxed 480i for SDTVs)


Slogan
Art Everywhere[1]


Country
United States


Language
English


Broadcast area
Nationwide


Formerly called
Ovation TV (2007–10)


Sister channel(s)
Reelz
All News Channel


Website
www.ovationtv.com



Availability



Satellite


DirecTV
274 (HD/SD)
Channel 1274 On Demand


Available on some U.S. cable systems
Consult your local cable provider for channel availability


IPTV


AT&T U-verse
385 (SD)
1385 (HD)


Verizon FiOS
188 (SD)
688 (HD)


Ovation is an American television network whose stated mission is to connect the world to all forms of art and artistic expression.
Ovation premiered on April 21, 1996 and was re-launched on June 20, 2007 to a national audience with carriage on DirecTV. Since then, the network has added carriage on AT&T U-verse, Verizon FiOS, Comcast/Xfinity, RCN, Time Warner Cable, Charter (selected markets) and other major cable systems across the country (check local listings). The channel currently reaches approximately 50 million subscribers. Ovation launched an HD service in 2010 and is also available on VOD (in both standard- and high-definition) and via TV Everywhere (authentication) through selected providers.
Ovation is a privately held, independent cable network. Ovation’s investors include Hubbard Media Group, Corporate Partners II, Arcadia Investment Partners, Perry Capital, and The Weinstein Company.
As of February 2015, approximately 54 million households (46.4% of those with television) receive Ovation.[2]



Contents


1 History

1.1 Carriage


2 Ovation HD
3 Programming
4 Executive team
5 References
6 External links



History[edit]




Ovation TV logo, used from 2007 to 2010.






Ovation logo, used from 2010 to 2013.


The channel was launched in 1997 and relaunched in June 2007,[3] coinciding with its addition by DirecTV, which gave the channel full national coverage. In 2008, Ovation also became available on Dish Network. With the relaunch, Ovation TV claimed an "energetic" new look and a new primetime schedule revolving around "genre nights" dedicated to performance, people, art, music and film.[4] On March 1, 2010, the channel dropped the "TV" from its name in a rebranding effort.[5]
Carriage[edit]
On December 18, 2012, Time Warner Cable announced plans to remove Ovation from its own systems as well as those operated by Bright House Networks (for which TWC negotiates carriage agreements). Time Warner Cable and Bright House dropped Ovation at midnight Eastern Time on December 31, 2012.[6] The two providers later reached an agreement to resume carriage of Ovation on October 16, 2013, reinstating the channel on TWC and Bright House systems on January 1, 2014.[7]
On April 6, 2015, Dish Network removed it from the lineup.
Ovation HD[edit]
Ovation HD is a high definition simulcast feed of Ovation, which broadcasts in the 1080i resolution format; it was launched in July 2010.[8] Ovation HD is currently available on DirecTV, Comcast, Time Warner Cable, Bright House Networks, Verizon FiOS, and AT&T U-verse.
Programming[edit]
Ovation programming is a mix of original and selectively curated television series, films, documentaries and specials, targeting a multi-generational audience.
In 2013, Ovation gained national attention when it announced the exclusive US premiere of a A Young Doctor’s Notebook, a four-part scripted series starring Jon Hamm and Daniel Radcliffe, and launched the exclusive US premiere of The Artful Detective, (known in Canada and elsewhere as Murdoch Mysteries), now in its seventh season, with season 8 premiering in February 2015. In 2013, the network also premiered The Art Of which returns with season 4 in 2015.
Ovation has expanded its line-up with the docu-series, Big Ballet, featuring former Royal Ballet dancer Wayne Sleep as he assembles a troupe of plus-size dancers to perform Swan Lake.
Original series premiering in 2014 included The Fashion Fund, starring Anna Wintour and Diane Von Furstenberg, Capture, wherein celebrity photographer Mark Seliger and other legendary shooters sit with A-list celebrities to share the stories behind their indelible images, Young Marvels, highlighting the artistic achievements made by young people in dance, music, Trending Trailers, with celebrity interviews and previews of upcoming films and "Touching the Art," a comedic web series panel show focused on contemporary art hosted by Casey Jane Ellison.
Returning series in 2014 included The Fashion Fund (season 2), A Young Doctor’s Notebook (season 2) and the Song by Song franchise, highlighting the stories behind the most popular hits by Sheryl Crow, Blondie, and Lindsey Stirling.
In 2015, Ovation premiered the new reality show Art Breakers. Art Breakers steps inside the high-stakes world of art collecting. Powerhouse dealers Miller Gaffney and Carol Lee Brosseau deploy their vast knowledge to curate the most enviable collections for demanding patrons. On November 9, Ovation will be the exclusive home to NOW: In the Wings on a World Stage, Kevin Spacey and Sam Mendes’ documentary following Spacey’s theater company as they take their production of "Richard III" around the world, with Spacey in the lead role. Weekday mornings on Ovation are anchored by Morning Canvas, a daily offering of artistic inspiration with host Nikki Boyer.
Ovation will debut the U.S. premiere of international drama series Versailles on October 1, 2016.
Current programming:

Murdoch Mysteries (The Artful Detective)
The Tudors
Dharma & Greg
Two Guys and a Girl
Boston Legal

Former programming:

Firefly
Robin Hood
Smash (TV series)
Antiques Roadshow

Executive team[edit]

Chairman: Ken Solomon
CEO: Charles Segars
CFO: Phil Gilligan
General Counsel: Robert Rader
EVP, Network Strategy: Liz Janneman
EVP, Programming & Production: Scott Woodward
VP, Business Development: William Marks

References[edit]



^ "Ovation launches new "Art Everywhere" Tagline and Brand Strategy". Ovation. May 9, 2013. 
^ Seidman, Robert (February 22, 2015). "List of how many homes each cable network is in as of February 2015". TV by the Numbers. Zap2it. Retrieved March 14, 2015. 
^ Family, Weinstein Buy Arts Channel" (Los Angeles Times, August 30, 2006)
^ https://news.yahoo.com/s/nm/20070605/tv_nm/ovation_dc. Retrieved June 10, 2007.  Missing or empty |title= (help)[dead link]
^ Ovation Gets Artsy Makeover Multichannel News February 26, 2010
^ Time Warner Cable decides to bow out of Ovation Reuters, December 18, 2012
^ "Ovation Network Returning To Time Warner Cable". Deadline Hollywood. October 16, 2013. 
^ Ovation Launching HD Channel in 2010 - Arts-Focused Network Has Added Subs This Year in Standard Def Multichannel News October 6, 2009



External links[edit]

Official website







v
t
e


Hubbard Broadcasting, Inc.



Key people



Stanley S. Hubbard





Radio stations



KAZG
KBHP
KBLB
KBUN
KBUN-FM
KDKB
KDUS
KIKV-FM
KIXI
KKNW
KKWS
KKZY
KLIZ
KLIZ-FM
KLLZ-FM
KNSP
KQMV
KRWM
KSLX-FM
KSTP
KSTP-FM
KTMY
KUAL-FM
KULO
KUPD
KVBR
KVRQ
KWAD
WARH
WBQH
WDRV
WFED
WIL-FM
WJJY-FM
WKRQ
WREW
WSHE-FM
WTMX
WTOP-FM / WTLP / WWWT-FM
WUBE-FM
WWDV
WWFD
WXOS
WYGY





ABC network affiliates



KAAL
KSTP-TV / KSAX-TV / KRWF-TV
WDIO-TV / WIRT





NBC network affiliates



KOB / KOBF-TV
KOBR
WHEC-TV
WNYT





Other stations



K42DJ (Azteca)1
KSTC-TV (Independent)
WNYA (MyNetworkTV)





Cable television channels



Ovation
Reelz





Acquisitions



Omni Broadcasting






1Owned by Hubbard and operated by News-Press & Gazette Company in a LMA.








 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Ovation_(U.S._TV_channel)&oldid=811146948"					
Categories: American television networksHubbard BroadcastingEnglish-language television stations in the United StatesTelevision channels and stations established in 1996The Weinstein CompanyHidden categories: Pages with citations lacking titlesPages with citations having bare URLsAll articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from May 2016Articles needing additional references from January 2017All articles needing additional referencesOfficial website different in Wikidata and Wikipedia 
