Paley Center for Media - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search





The Paley Center for Media, New York City






The Paley Center for Media, Beverly Hills


The Paley Center for Media, formerly the Museum of Television & Radio (MT&R) and the Museum of Broadcasting, founded in 1975 by William S. Paley,[1] is an American cultural institution in New York and Los Angeles dedicated to the discussion of the cultural, creative, and social significance of television, radio, and emerging platforms for the professional community and media-interested public.
It was renamed The Paley Center for Media on June 5, 2007, to encompass emerging broadcasting technologies such as the Internet, mobile video, and podcasting, as well as to expand its role as a neutral setting where media professionals can engage in discussion and debate about the evolving media landscape.[2]



Contents


1 Locations

1.1 New York
1.2 Los Angeles


2 Archives
3 Programming and education

3.1 Media Advanced Management Program


4 See also
5 References
6 External links



Locations[edit]
With an ever-growing collection of content broadcast on radio and television, the Paley Center has two branches; in New York City and Los Angeles. The New York City branch is in the heart of Midtown Manhattan at 25 West 52nd Street between 5th and 6th Avenues. The Los Angeles branch is located at 465 N Beverly Drive in Beverly Hills, near Rodeo Drive.
New York[edit]
The original Museum of Broadcasting, founded in 1975 by William S. Paley, opened in Manhattan on November 9, 1976, occupying two floors in an office building at 1 East 53rd Street, near the corner of 53rd Street and Fifth Avenue. This was adjacent to the Doubleday Book Store on Fifth Avenue.
The Museum of Broadcasting's name was changed to The Museum of Television & Radio with the September 12, 1991 move into the William S. Paley Building. Designed by Philip Johnson and located at 25 West 52nd Street (adjacent to the famed 21 Club at 21 West 52nd Street), the 16-story building was itself renamed The Paley Center for Media in 2007. It has two front entrances: the one on the left is for office staff, and the main entrance on the right for the general public. The Alexander Mackendrick film Sweet Smell of Success (1957) has an exterior location scene with different angles revealing how the neighborhood looked in the years before the building was constructed.
The ground-level floor of the New York museum features the ticket and information area and the Steven Spielberg Gallery, used for exhibitions, receptions and fund-raising events. Reservations to use the Library are made at the front desk. In addition to the elevator, a staircase on the first floor leads down to the large basement-level theater. The fourth floor has numerous computers, used by visitors to locate programming in the collection. When a selection is made, it can be watched on the computer. Computers are available both for individuals and for groups.
Los Angeles[edit]
The Museum of Television & Radio in Los Angeles at 465 North Beverly Drive in Beverly Hills, opened March 18, 1996 in a new building designed by Richard Meier and named for Leonard H. Goldenson. When the Los Angeles building opened, it featured a collection duplicated from the tapes in the New York collection. Rooms are named for the celebrity sponsors: the Danny Thomas Lobby, the Aaron Spelling Reception Area and the Garry Marshall Pool. Screenings are held in the 150-seat John H. Mitchell Theatre. The Ahmanson Radio Listening Room has headphones for use with five pre-programmed channels.
Archives[edit]
The Paley Center for Media is committed to the idea that many television and radio programs are significant works and should be preserved for posterity's sake. Instead of collecting artifacts and memorabilia, the Paley Center comprises mostly screening rooms, including two full-sized theaters. Nearly 160,000 television shows, commercials, and radio programs are available in the Paley Center's library, and during each visit, viewers can select and watch shows at individual consoles, and radio programs are accessed through these same consoles.
Some television programs are from the 1940s with radio programs dating back to the 1920s. The earliest TV program in the Museum's collection is a silent film of NBC's 1939 production of Dion Boucicault's melodrama The Streets of New York (1857), with Norman Lloyd, George Coulouris, and Jennifer Jones.[3]
The museum does not sell the material or permit it to leave the premises. Viewing copies of television programs are Hi-8mm video tape dubs. The originals are kept in a vault outside of New York City, and the collection is being digitized.[4] The Paley Center has acquired many lost episodes of classic television shows and has produced documentary features about the history and impact of television and radio. In recent years, the Center has sponsored advance viewing of the pilot episodes of each network's new programs.




The cast and crew of Melissa & Joey at an "Onstage @ Paley LA" event


Television and radio shows are added to the collection after archival discoveries and through donations from individuals and organizations. In 2002, the Museum held a showing of the previously unseen rehearsal film of Rodgers and Hammerstein's Cinderella telecast from March 17, 1957. This rehearsal was found in the CBS vault while the Museum was on a quest for other "lost" Cinderella materials. It had been believed that on the night of the live broadcast the show was preserved on both kinescope and videotape and then transmitted to the West Coast. Seeking either of these, Jane Klain, the Director of Research at the New York facility, asked CBS to search their vaults. The CBS database listed three 16mm films featuring five-minute segments of Julie Andrews performing in the show. When the earliest one was brought from the CBS vault, it was discovered to be the full dress rehearsal.
The Center is also known for its many discoveries involving daytime game shows. Episodes of destroyed shows such as High Rollers, Celebrity Sweepstakes, The Money Maze, the Chuck Woolery version of Wheel of Fortune, To Say the Least, and daytime Hollywood Squares episodes are all available for viewing in the library. Episodes of other game shows such as Tattletales, Let's Make a Deal, and The Gong Show are also in the library.
Programming and education[edit]
Seminars and interviews with public figures are conducted frequently, all of which are recorded and available for later viewing on individual consoles. Past seminar participants have included Lucille Ball, Carol Burnett, Dick Cavett, Alan Alda, Al Franken, John Frankenheimer, James Garner, Bob Hope, Roy Huggins, Jack Paar, Dennis Potter, Dick Van Dyke, and Gore Vidal. Also available for viewing are seminars featuring creators and cast members from TV shows, including The Larry Sanders Show, Seinfeld, King of the Hill, The Simpsons, South Park, The Daily Show with Jon Stewart, Arrested Development, House, Battlestar Galactica, and The League. Panel discussions have varied from what it was like to work with Orson Welles to a celebration of Roy Huggins's career.
PaleyFest, also known as the William S. Paley Television Festival, is an annual television festival hosted by the Paley Center in the Los Angeles area. Founded in 1984, the festival, held annually in the spring, features panels composed of the casts and prominent creative talent from popular television shows such as Community, Parks and Recreation, Mad Men, and Lost, among many others. The panels field questions from a moderator and a public audience and often present exclusive content from their respective series. The festival has been in many venues over its history, including the Los Angeles County Museum of Art Bing Theater, the Directors Guild of America theater, the Cinerama Dome, and the Saban Theatre in Beverly Hills. It was relocated to the larger Dolby Theatre in Hollywood in 2014.[5]
Media Advanced Management Program[edit]
In 2010, The Paley Center for Media announced a partnership with IESE Business School to offer the Advanced Management Program in Media and Entertainment or the "Media AMP", a postgraduate level program for media and entertainment executives to preparing them for high level leadership roles in their companies. Launched in January 2011, the program’s goal is to bring executives up to speed on new business models, management techniques, and technologies. A key feature is access to leaders in the industry.
The Media AMP curriculum covers four modules over a six-month period. Three of the modules are held in New York, and one in Los Angeles. Key discussion topics include: Value Creation; Digital Strategy; Accounting, Finance and Management Control; Content and Customers; Leadership; Production, Technology and Operations Management; Entrepreneurship and Innovation; IT Systems and Strategy; Managerial Economics and Decision Analysis; Marketing Strategy; and others.
See also[edit]

List of museums and cultural institutions in New York City
List of old-time radio people
List of old-time radio programs
List of U.S. radio programs
Museum of Broadcast Communications

References[edit]



^ "History" Paley Center for Media website
^ "The Museum of Television & Radio announces new name"
^ Ritchie, Michael. (1994) Please Stand By. Overlook Press.
^ Jenson, Elizabeth. (June 5, 2007) "New Name and Mission for Museum of Television" The New York Times
^ Ng, Philiana (December 12, 2013). "PaleyFest Moves to Dolby Theatre for 2014, Unveils First Honorees". Hollywood Reporter. Retrieved April 26, 2014. 



External links[edit]



Wikimedia Commons has media related to Paley Center for Media.



The Paley Center for Media
Description of exhibits in Hollywood facility







v
t
e


Museums in Manhattan



Financial District and Battery Park
(Below Chambers St)



Castle Clinton
China Institute
Federal Hall
Fraunces Tavern
George Gustav Heye Center
Mmuseumm
Museum of American Finance
Museum of Jewish Heritage
New York City Police Museum
Skyscraper Museum
South Street Seaport





Lower Manhattan
(Chambers-14th Sts)



Asian American Arts Centre
Drawing Center
Eldridge Street Synagogue
FusionArts Museum
International Center of Photography
Lower East Side Tenement Museum
Merchant's House Museum
Museum of Chinese in America
New Museum
New York City Fire Museum
The Theatre Museum
Ukrainian Museum
Whitney Museum of American Art





Chelsea, Flatiron, Gramercy
(14th-34th Sts)



Center for Jewish History
International Print Center New York
John J. Harvey
The Museum at FIT
Museum of Mathematics
Museum of Sex
Rubin Museum of Art
Theodore Roosevelt Birthplace
Tibet House





Midtown
(34th-59th Sts)



Girl Scout Museum and Archives
Intrepid Sea, Air & Space Museum
Japan Society
John M. Mossman Lock Museum
Madame Tussauds
Morgan Library & Museum
Museum of Arts and Design
Museum of Modern Art
New York Public Library Main Branch
New York Transit Museum
Paley Center for Media
Scandinavia House
United Nations Art Collection





Upper West Side
(59th-125th Sts west of 5th Av)



American Folk Art Museum
American Museum of Natural History

Rose Center for Earth and Space


Children's Museum of Manhattan
Museum of Biblical Art
New York Public Library for the Performing Arts
New-York Historical Society
Nicholas Roerich Museum
Rose Museum





Upper East Side and East Harlem
(59th-125th Sts along or east of 5th Av)



Asia Society
El Museo del Barrio
Frick Collection
Gracie Mansion
Grolier Club
Guggenheim Museum
Jewish Museum
Met Breuer
Metropolitan Museum of Art
Mount Vernon Hotel Museum
Museum of Motherhood
Museum of the City of New York
National Academy Museum and School





Upper Manhattan
(Above 125th St)



American Academy of Arts and Letters
The Cloisters
Dyckman House
Hamilton Grange National Memorial
Hispanic Society of America
Malcolm X and Dr. Betty Shabazz Memorial and Educational Center
Morris–Jumel Mansion
National Jazz Museum in Harlem
National Track and Field Hall of Fame
Neue Galerie New York
Yeshiva University Museum
Studio Museum in Harlem





Islands



Ellis Island
Statue of Liberty





Defunct



Chelsea Art Museum
Dahesh Museum of Art
Forbes Galleries
Museum of Comic and Cartoon Art
Museum of Primitive Art








See also: Museum Mile









Authority control



WorldCat Identities
VIAF: 170355208
LCCN: no2011055387
ISNI: 0000 0001 1917 0980










 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Paley_Center_for_Media&oldid=807787224"					
Categories: Museums in Los AngelesHistory of television in the United StatesHistory of radioMuseums in ManhattanMedia museums in New York (state)Media studiesTelevision studiesMedia museums in CaliforniaTelecommunications museums in the United StatesTelevision archives in the United StatesMidtown ManhattanBuildings and structures in Beverly Hills, CaliforniaFestivals in Los AngelesRecurring events established in 1984Television festivalsHidden categories: Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers 
