Rough Cut – Woodworking with Tommy Mac - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search








This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages)







The topic of this article may not meet Wikipedia's notability guideline for television. Please help to establish notability by citing reliable secondary sources that are independent of the topic and provide significant coverage of it beyond its mere trivial mention. If notability cannot be established, the article is likely to be merged, redirected, or deleted.
Find sources: "Rough Cut – Woodworking with Tommy Mac" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (October 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)









This article includes a list of references, related reading or external links, but its sources remain unclear because it lacks inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (October 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)









This article relies largely or entirely on a single source. Please help improve this article by introducing citations to additional sources. (October 2016)





(Learn how and when to remove this template message)





Rough Cut - Woodworking with Tommy Mac


Genre
Woodworking


Presented by
Thomas J. MacDonald


Country of origin
United States


Original language(s)
English


No. of seasons
7


Production


Location(s)
Canton, Massachusetts


Running time
27 minutes


Production company(s)
WGBH-TV


Distributor
American Public Television


Release


Original network
WGBH-TV


Audio format
Stereo


Original release
2009 – present


External links


Website
tommymac.us


Rough Cut – Woodworking with Tommy Mac is a woodworking television show hosted by carpenter and woodworker Thomas J. MacDonald that is produced by WGBH Boston. The show is distributed by American Public Television.



Contents


1 Overview
2 Broadcast
3 DVDs
4 External links
5 References



Overview[edit]
The show is presented as an instructional woodworking tutorial in which Tommy Mac guides the viewer through the necessary steps to create tables, cabinets, chairs, and many more artisan woodworks. Each episode features a particular creation, and chronicles Tommy's work from conception to completion, thus allowing the viewer to replicate the work in their own shop. The show displays a range of woodworking skills and techniques, from the very basic to the highly advanced, enabling viewers of any skill level to learn more about the craft. Often, Tommy is joined by regular helpers, and occasionally episodes will feature other woodworking experts. Several episodes with the title "Master Showcase", will focus on a notable woodworker, and their body of work. More recent episodes have featured Tommy traveling across the United States to collaborate with new experts, and learn more about the history of the craft.
Broadcast[edit]
The series is broadcast on public television stations (mostly PBS stations), and the Create network.
DVDs[edit]
The first and second season were released on DVD. There are no current plans for future seasons to be released.
External links[edit]

Official Web site
WGBH official page
Official Facebook page

References[edit]


http://handmade-business.com/tommy-boy/
http://createtv.com/ShowInfo/Rough+Cut+Woodworking+with+Tommy+Mac
http://www.patriotledger.com/x919102087/Tommy-MacDonald-an-unlikely-television-show-host







v
t
e


WGBH Educational Foundation



Television stations



WFXZ-CD1
WGBH-TV
WGBX-TV
WGBY-TV





Radio stations



WCAI
WCRB
WGBH
WNAN
WNCK
WZAI





Media accessibility efforts



Media Access Group (closed captioning and audio description)
Descriptive Video Service





Television productions



America's Test Kitchen
American Experience
Antiques Roadshow
Arthur
Ask This Old House
Basic Black
Cook's Country
Curious George
Design Squad
Food Trip with Todd English
French in Action
Frontline
Gourmet's Adventures with Ruth
Gourmet's Diary of a Foodie
Greater Boston
High School Quiz Show
Maria Hinojosa: One-on-One
Martha Speaks
Masterpiece
Nova
Nova ScienceNow
Peep and the Big Wide World
Pinkalicious & Peterrific
Rough Cut – Woodworking with Tommy Mac
Simply Ming
The Victory Garden
This Old House
Zoom





Public Radio International−PRI
productions



Studio 360
The Takeaway
To the Point
The World





Public Radio International−PRI
distributions



Afropop Worldwide
America Abroad
As It Happens
Classical 24
Day 6
Echoes
Innovation Hub
Jazz After Hours
Live Wire
Living on Earth
On Story
Out in the Open
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
Podcast Playlist
Q
The Record Shelf
Science Friday
Selected Shorts
The Tavis Smiley Show
The Tobolowsky Files





Radio hosts



Kurt Andersen
Clark Boyd
Steve Curwood
Celeste Headlee
Mary Kay Magistad
Lisa Mullins
Femi Oke
Warren Olney
Jeb Sharp
Tavis Smiley
Faith Salie
Ray Suarez
Jesse Thorn
Marco Werman
Robin Young





Websites



GlobalPost






1 WFXZ-CD maintains a channel sharing agreement with WGBH-TV.








This article about a television show originating in the United States is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.


v
t
e









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Rough_Cut_–_Woodworking_with_Tommy_Mac&oldid=796340372"					
Categories: Woodworking mediaAmerican television showsUnited States television program stubsHidden categories: Articles with topics of unclear notability from October 2016All articles with topics of unclear notabilityArticles lacking in-text citations from October 2016All articles lacking in-text citationsArticles needing additional references from October 2016All articles needing additional referencesAll stub articles 
