The Legal Television Network - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search








This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages)







This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (May 2007) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)









This article is an orphan, as no other articles link to it. Please introduce links to this page from related articles; try the Find link tool for suggestions. (February 2012)









This article may require cleanup to meet Wikipedia's quality standards. No cleanup reason has been specified. Please help improve this article if you can. (September 2008) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)





(Learn how and when to remove this template message)




The Legal Television Network




Type
Cable & Digital Media Network


Country
United States



Official website

www.ClienteleVision.com


LTVN, the Legal Television Network, is an American television company with shows designed for a mainstream audience, which seek to explain the legal system and legal issues faced by consumers, business executives and laypersons. The network's programming includes "entertaining and informative programs that cut through the complexity of an intimidating legal system and make the law user-friendly."[1]
Since its inception, LTVN has focused on the production of short-form features and documentaries that show the legal system in action and provide analysis from legal experts in topics which include criminal justice, personal finance, real estate, retirement and estate planning, insurance, employment disputes, small claims litigation, business and entrepreneurship, consumer protection and similar topics. These documentaries are part of a Law on Demand series that is distributed through Video on Demand (VOD) channels on United States cable television, as well as through broadband licensees.
LTVN's other series, called Case-in-Point, includes features on unusual cases, often focusing on high-profile events, or disputes arising from the fields of entertainment, music and sports.
In July 2007, LTVN launched a broadband video service in beta, known as CLIENTELEVISION.[2] The service offers public interest groups, schools, bar associations and law firms the ability to integrate the network's various content channels into web sites.[3] As such, LTVN has become a provider of video content to "long-tail" publishers. By September 2009, CLIENTELEVISION featured hundreds of videos divided into 10 categories called "channels," such as automotive, personal finance, insurance, criminal justice and employment.[4]
The network also produces longer documentaries which focus on issues of particular relevance to consumers, which it makes available on Pay Per View and through DVD distribution. In addition, the network maintains a legal news web service, known as LegalNewsTV, which features some of its videos and articles by such commentators as James J. Kilpatrick. With the reality-focused re-launch of CourtTV, LTVN is now the only remaining television network devoted to coverage of legal issues.
See also[edit]

Legal advice
Legal advertising
Legal marketing
Expert testimony
Documentary

References[edit]



^ [1]




Official LTVN Web Site, About LTVN
Easy-to-digest law content aim of fledgling network, Baltimore Business Journal, September 17, 2007
Legal Television Network Fills Programming Gap, Smart Money
The Daily Record, Owings Mills litigator launches Legal Television Network
Owings Mills Times, Web site cuts through the dreaded legalese
Legal Television Network Takes Law-Related Information Online, Maryland Bar Bulletin

External links[edit]

Official Web Site of The Legal Television Network
About LTVN





 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=The_Legal_Television_Network&oldid=713968365"					
Categories: American television networksLegal organizations based in the United StatesHidden categories: Articles needing additional references from May 2007All articles needing additional referencesOrphaned articles from February 2012All orphaned articlesArticles needing cleanup from September 2008All pages needing cleanupCleanup tagged articles without a reason field from September 2008Wikipedia pages needing cleanup from September 2008Pages using deprecated image syntax 
