The New Edition Story - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search







This article's plot summary may be too long or excessively detailed. Please help improve it by removing unnecessary details and making it more concise. (January 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)





The New Edition Story


Genre
Biographical drama


Based on
New Edition


Written by
Abdul Williams


Directed by
Chris Robinson


Starring
Woody McClain
Algee Smith
Bryshere Gray
Elijah Kelley
Keith T. Powers
Luke James
Tyler Marcel Williams
Jahi Di'Allo Winston
Dante Hoagland
Caleb McLaughlin
Myles Truitt


Narrated by
Wood Harris


Theme music composer
Kenneth "Babyface" Edmonds
Antonio Reid
James Harris
Terry Lewis


Country of origin
United States


Original language(s)
English


Production


Producer(s)
Ricky Bell
Michael L. Bivins
Bobby Brown
Ronnie DeVoe
Johnny Gill
Ralph Tresvant
Jesse Collins
Stephen Hill
Debra Lee
Brooke Payne
Valerie Bleth Sharp
Chris Robinson


Running time
360 mins.


Production company(s)
Jesse Collins Entertainment


Distributor
Black Entertainment Television


Release


Original network
BET


Original release
January 24 – January 26, 2017


External links


Website
www.bet.com/shows/the-new-edition-story.html


The New Edition Story is an American biographical three-part miniseries about the R&B group New Edition, from their rise to fame as a boy band from the Orchard Park Projects of Roxbury, Massachusetts, to becoming a successful adult act. It was originally broadcast on BET from January 24 through January 26, 2017, becoming the network's first scripted miniseries. All six members of New Edition served as co-producers.[1]




The series was shown on BET.





Contents


1 Cast

1.1 Main cast
1.2 Others


2 Plot

2.1 Part One
2.2 Part Two
2.3 Part Three


3 Development

3.1 Production
3.2 Casting


4 Promotion
5 Reception

5.1 Ratings
5.2 Critical


6 References
7 External links



Cast[edit]
Main cast[edit]


Woody McClain as Bobby Brown

Tyler Marcel Williams as Young Bobby Brown


Algee Smith as Ralph Tresvant

Jahi Di'Allo Winston as Young Ralph Tresvant


Bryshere Y. Gray as Michael Bivins

Dante Hoagland as Young Michael Bivins


Elijah Kelley as Ricky Bell

Caleb McLaughlin as Young Ricky Bell


Keith Powers as Ronnie DeVoe

Myles Truitt as Young Ronnie DeVoe


Luke James as Johnny Gill
Wood Harris as Brooke Payne
Faizon Love as Maurice Starr
Tank as Jheryl Busby
Michael Rapaport as Gary Evans
Wallace Smith as Jeff Dyson
Duane Martin as Louis Silas Jr.
Yvette Nicole Brown as Shirley Bivins, Michael's mother
Lisa Nicole Carson as Mae Bell, Ricky's mother
La La Anthony as Flo Payne DeVoe, Ronnie's mother
Monica Calhoun as Patricia Tresvant, Ralph's mother
Sandi McCree as Carole Brown, Bobby's mother


Others[edit]


Raven Bowens as Teasha Bivins, Michael's wife
Bre-Z as Peanut Bell, Ricky's sister
Bryan Terrell Clark as Terry Lewis
Josh David as Al B. Sure
Melvin Jackson Jr. as Kurtis Blow
Wesley Jonathan as Michael Jonzun
Ashley Wade as Whitney Houston - the girlfriend of Bobby, who later to be his wife and had a daughter.
Krystal M. Harris as Zena, Ralph's ex-wife
Cynthia McWilliams as Sherry Carter
DC Young Fly as Bobby Brown's barber
Cynthia Rodriguez as Amy Correa Bell, Ricky's wife
Rachel Currence as Shamari Fears, Ronnie's wife
Chelsea Diggs-Smith as Amber Tresvant, Ralph's wife
Noel Braham as Ray Parker, Jr.
Stephen Hill as himself


Plot[edit]






This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (February 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)



Part One[edit]
Opening Sequence - Home Again Tour - New Mexico 1997
The first part of the mini-series opens with a narrator (narrated by Wood Harris) describing "New Edition" on tour, after they have already achieved success. Although the group performs together with all the current members on stage, they also perform as separate acts. Bobby Brown is one of the founding members of New Edition, who is shown performing solo. While backstage, BBD, the trio group, is shown bothered by Brown's three actions: his erratic behavior, his selfishness, and his over exposure. The three feel that Bobby is stealing the spotlight from the other groups and taking time away from the other acts to perform their sets. Two other solo acts, Johnny Gill and Ralph Tresvant, are also shown in the wings of the stage chatting, while they await their opportunity to perform. Ronnie DeVoe (Keith Powers), member of BBD, decides to interrupt Bobby Brown's performance and orders the DJ to begin playing their set. BBD immediately begins to perform, enraging Bobby Brown. Chaos erupts on stage in the middle of the concert as several members of the competitive groups begin to fight one another. During the ensuing meltdown, a gunshot is heard. The narrator then begins to describe how a group that had become so successful could have gotten to this point in their careers, explaining that it was always ego, pride, and greed. The scene then rewinds back in time to show the group's founding in Roxbury, Massachusetts.

The rise of New Edition - Roxbury, MA - 1978-1983
It's a normal day for the people of Orchard Park Housing Projects (also called "O.P."), in Roxbury . A young boy named Ricky Bell (played as a youth by Caleb McLaughlin) (who goes by his nickname 'Slick'), fearfully asks his mother to go to a local talent show with a neighboring friend, Michael Bivins (nicknamed "Mike") (played as a youth by Dante Hoagland). She immediately rejects Ricky's request by telling him he is a bad influence and tells him to stay away from him. However, Ricky finds a way to meet later that night outside with Mike, ignoring his mother's statements. Ricky then asks Mike if he's still going to the show, so that they can support their other friend in the neighborhood, Bobby Brown (played as a youth by Tyler Marcel Williams), who is supposed to perform. They later head to the local talent show and are influenced by the sound of a vocal group called "The Untouchables". Bobby is called on stage to perform and has stage fright within the first few seconds he appeared on stage. The next day, Bobby tells them that he wants to try again. However, they should get on stage with Bobby instead, which was his secret silent plot to get rid of his stage fright. They were at first unsure, but were convinced to be on board, as long as they were able to add another friend who could sing. Ralph Tresvant (played as a youth by Jahi D'Allo Winston) is a friend of the boys, who is down the block trying to impress a girl. Ralph has been trying to get her attention for a while. The boys meet at Ricky's house to practice with small discrepancies happening between them. Ricky's brother and sister, Peanut (Bre-Z) both feel they need guidance if they're going to take it seriously and feel they should meet with Brooke Payne (Wood Harris), a guy who works with some top acts around Boston. The young boys sneak in the back alley of a club to convince Brooke to manage them. However, he wasn't interested until the boys insisted and broke out into an impromptu a capella version of The Jackson 5's "I Want You Back". Brooke then has a change of heart and told the boys to meet him at the neighborhood recreation center, first thing in the morning.
The next morning, the boys arrive on time to meet Payne, but Payne doesn't sugarcoat them. He warns them they will be doing some hard work as he becomes their artist developer. Over the course of the weeks, he continued to train them extraneously. Then, he teaches them choreography, as well as mental and physical discipline, while giving them a platform to perform around the city. He came up with a name for them that signifies what the next big act coming from out of their city which would become "New Edition". Brooke then prepares them for a big talent showcase at the Strand Theater by a popular record producer in Boston named Maurice Starr (Faizon Love), who would be offering a recording contract under his independent record label. New Edition makes their debut as an amateur act along with other performers in an "Apollo" styled competition as done at the world's famous Apollo Theater. The judges deliberated and gave Maurice Starr the results of the 1st-place winners and revealed them to be "The Boston Rebels" (a hip-hop duo), The audience became displeased with the decision and ranted out loud in unison "New Edition", upset that they didn't win. Maurice became obligated to also grant New Edition a studio recording session and a record contract. Maurice felt the group would be better as a quintet instead to channel "The Jackson 5". Brooke suggested that his nephew Ronnie DeVoe (played as a youth by Myles Truitt) may be able to join, but must earn his spot to be in the group. He challenges him to fit into the group, performing the routine during the rehearsal. Without a doubt, Ronnie's moves are in sync with the group. During the first studio recording session, Bobby and Ricky get into a scuffle over a pair of headphones, while poor Ralph sits patiently and obediently on the side. Maurice glances over to him and has an idea to instead use him to sing first. To all their surprise, Ralph's voice led the way for the track called "Candy Girl". The momentum in the room gave prominence that the record would be a hit.
Impressed by Ralph's vocals, Maurice Starr pays a private visit to Ralph's home to convince him he'd be better off without the group and take a solo deal. Over the holidays, Ralph wanted the best for his mother, Patrica Tresvant (Monica Calhoun), by saving up with the money he made with the group on a Christmas tree. By his mother's melancholy and joyful reaction, it convinced him to make a decision as he secretly called Maurice to turn down the offer instead. Starr accepts the final offer and later meets with the boys' mothers to sign the recording contracts and offered them $500 and a Betamax machine as the prize. Fame came fast as their single,Candy Girl, goes popular nationwide. The boys start to embark on their journey as new found stars, taking photo shoots for their debut album cover.
First Album and Candy Girl Tour - 1983
"Candy Girl" becomes a number 1 hit on the Billboard charts, topping Michael Jackson. Around this time, the group starts on their national appearances for TV and concert halls. They arrive at The Roseland Theater in Oregon to headline the show alongside Madonna and Kurtis Blow. One exhausting night after a few months on the road, Payne arrives home only to be approached by the disappointed mothers of Bobby and Ricky. They both express their concern about not receiving any checks that their sons should have earned from the shows. They begin to rant that about their financial struggles on food stamps. He explains to them that he is not in charge of their finances, and they should look further to the other positions who may handle the money. Angered by his response, they call him out for being in charge of them and not having things in order. Both threaten to find another manager, who may better help achieve finances. He persuades them to hold on longer to see the results. They mutter in disgrace, but gives him a chance. The young kids of New Edition begin touring all over the world, and start to mature into teenagers. At this point, the group has now became a popular international sensation, creating a huge buzz with screaming-faithful fans who are waiting to greet them.
Transition of Power / Boys Gone Wild - 1983 to 1984
The tour has came to an end and New Edition returns home to Roxbury in their tour bus, dropping them off in front of their neighborhood projects. The teenage quintet felt a disappointing sense of vibe arriving home, because they wanted to stay on the road and enjoy the high life, instead of returning to poverty. A few days later, the checks from the tour finally arrived. The mothers were very distraught to find out that each of their sons individually received only $1.87 as the final payment from the tour. Payne defends his stance to let the mothers know that it isn't his fault because he himself have never done big business with the music industry on business deals before. He tells them about why it happened that way, describing recoup-able expenses, which they were given a loan up until they can they make profits to pay it back. Therefore, it came out of their check. He dissected the info further to guide them on how the group used their advance money on marketing, promotion, studio, etc. The mothers still weren't buying it. He also spilled his heart out to prove himself that he doesn't even receive a check as well. He would never put the boys in jeopardy, because he loves them and take care of them as if they were his own kids. The ladies continue to argue on the situation, but debated. The four out of five mothers came to the conclusion to vote Brooke out in favor of firing him against Ronnie's mother, Flo DeVoe (La La Anthony), who is also Payne's sister. Angered by their decision, Flo called the shots to pull Ronnie out of the group. However, Brooke declines and tells her that it's all Ronnie have to be able to move out of the neighborhood.
A few months later, the mothers sought out another person of interest to be hired for the position as manager, Gary Evans (Michael Rapaport). He pleads his cases to promises by fulfilling a major business deal without financial discrepancies, sidelining not to make the same mistakes Payne made. Also, he vowed to get the group to exit their contract with Maurice Starr. The families agreed to sign him on. Later that year, he prepares New Edition to give an impromptu "office crash" performance for the Executive of MCA Records, Jheryl Busby (Tank), who invested a million dollars for the talent Gary finds. The group storms the office, singing "Popcorn Love" and Mr. Busby was uncomfortably surprised and welcomed the boys to the company. He privately expressed his disappointment and disinterest to Gary about the group, labeling them as "some ghetto kids". Jheryl felt concerned with and aware of the fact that he may be wasting his time, pursuing the group that he demanded to see future results to determine the success of the group.
Months later, Gary hires security guards, Jeff Dyson (Wallace Smith) and Khalil, for the group to introduce them at their hotel room. However, Gary unexpectedly walks in on the young men having sex in the dark with female groupies. Gary speaks with authority about their wild behavior, but the boys retaliate their frustrations by challenging the guards, making fun of them. Weeks later, studio sessions start to become an unfair battlefield as the now mature Ralph (Algee Smith), unintentionally takes control of the recording booth, singing lead for most of the tracks. The other members, feeling left out, decide they would rather leave the studio to find girls instead of staying with him to record their vocals. Later that evening, Ralph returns to the hotel chatting with the Jeff Dyson, the group's head bodyguard, about his girlfriend back home. Together, they both walk in on a house gathering, where the guys are playing cards with some girls they picked up. After Ralph questions to his band mates on why he's been singled out on the fun, the others responded that Ralph's been too busy being a "big star". Ricky says that he wouldn't have time for the fun. The boys, along with the girls, all exit the room, leaving him alone. He begins to feel neglected and betrayed.
Part Two[edit]
Roller coaster of troubles - 1984-1985
Days later after feeling ignored by his band mates, Ralph gets concerned about his constant position taking lead, which he opens up to Gary, who is feeling guilty over the situation. Gary assures him that most groups in the music business go through the same issue of one member having more recognition than others. As a resolution to his comfort, Ralph asks if the others can have more leads, and Gary green lights his wish. So, they begin to record "Mr. Telephone Man" with songwriter and producer Ray Parker Jr., which granted Bobby (Woody McClain) to have the main lead. However, during the recording, Mike (Bryshere Y. Gray) has trouble holding his note, so Bobby starts to clown him for being flat. This started to annoy Mike. Adding insult to injury, they head out to catch a ride in their limo, racing towards the vehicle and Mike misses his opportunity to have his favorite seat. The rest of the group proceeds to clown him more, and Mike decides he would rather catch a cab than deal with their pettiness. He slammed the limo car door in anger. Then, the limo pulls backwards, running over his foot. However, the driver stopped and rushed to Mike, telling him he had thought he had got in. Bobby antagonized the situation more, which led Mike to unleash his anger by spitting in his face. Then, Bobby jumped out of the limo's open sunroof window to fight him, with the other boys (Ricky, Ronnie, and Ralph) trying to break the two up. More chain of events happens between Mike and Bobby over a few days, which led to Gary meeting with the group. He tells them that their parents thought it would be best if Mike is disbanded from the group. Bobby spoke up in defense that even though he and Mike both had strong physical disagreements with each other, he's good with him staying. The rest of the group agreed. Mike returns to the studio to record his part and is welcomed back to the group with Bobby first approaching him to apologize. At a dance studio, they have a new choreographer that is teaching them moves to go with the song they just recorded. However, the band mates didn't agree with it. Jheryl felt that things were becoming a disaster and told Gary to fix it, as he already knew who to contact. Weeks later, they take a new cover album photo shoot for their self-titled second album, and Brooke pops up greeting Gary and Jeff. Gary lets it be clear to Brooke, saying that he's only there to do choreography and not playing the role of a manager. Payne takes small offense over it and expresses how it looks to him. However, he tells Gary to make them strong again, while proceeding to surprise the young men, telling them to be ready to get back to work.
New Edition starts rehearsing the location of the "Cool It Now" tour. Gary took notice that the props and backdrops are both being used, and felt it would be a distraction to the tour. However, he agreed to let them do what they want. Bobby decided to leave rehearsal to go out and have fun. Over the night, Bobby joy rides with his girlfriend in the city, while speeding without a license and driving a car someone loaned him. When the police pulls Bobby over, asking for two things: vehicle registration and a license, Bobby responds that he didn't have them with him. This led Bobby to get arrested for his actions, have his mugshot taken, and be taken in for custody by the police. At the police station, Gary comes to bail Bobby out of jail and questions him what happened. Bobby reveals that the girl he's been seeing is pregnant. Gary tried to find various options to his situations, which Bobby doesn't agree with. However, they both work it out. Back stage of a concert, the group talks while smoking weed and discussing why the production company wants them to make changes to their image. Someone knocks on the door and they scramble to deodorize the room. It was only their childhood artist companion, Johnny Gill (Luke James), who came from Washington, D.C.. They share a moment of laughs and talk about their personal lives. Another knock comes at the door and they rush to freshen it up again. However, it was their bodyguard Jeff Dyson, who is coming to bear news to Bobby privately. Bobby felt that the news weren't that bad to share, so he told him to share it in front of everyone in the room. Jeff then reveals that the girl he's been seeing gave birth, which comes as a shock to everyone in the room. In the hospital, the boys congratulate Bobby later, while Ralph also holds his secret from everyone. He then calls his pregnant girlfriend privately, asking her about the progress of the baby. Gary express his concern that once again, their image needs to stay clean and that they all must appear to be single. Weeks later, they load on a tour bus and no one knew where Bobby was. Gary finds Bobby nearby doing cocaine with his female groupies, while receiving fellatio from another girl in the car. He struggles with Bobby outside and gets him on the bus. On the bus, Gary becomes more frustrated over Bobby's situation, while the men share the news with each other. Although two of the members are offering support and personal vices, Bobby feels that he has his situation handled, because he's an entertainer.
Out with the old, In with the new - 1985-1988
Back home in Roxbury, and after one of the tours, all the band mates and their respective mothers celebrate on their success. However, all the mothers also still question about seeing the financial results, all of which are still in question. Gary comes over to discuss the year's tour statements, but in accordance with the band mates' mothers, they all still don't see the financial promises fulfilled. He explained to the women that their spending expenses and the multiple habits that the young men had are using up their advances. The mothers continued to feel frustrated and ordered Gary out of their home. At MCA records, New Edition's self-titled second album became certified platinum. Jheryl felt satisfied, as well as regretful of what he said about the group a year earlier. Later on tour, Ralph relays to his band mate, Ronnie that his girlfriend lost her baby, because he couldn't do much to support her. The tour continues smoothly and during their onstage performance in Oakland, California, Bobby has taken his solo lead way too seriously. Then, he selfishly hogs the entire onstage spotlight way long as the song ended. Although the group was alerted by Bobby's minor onstage selfishness, they interrupt his shenanigans to continue with the next song, "Cool It Now". This further enrages Bobby, whose severely egotistical and raunchy attitude finally caught up with him. Inflexible over the audience favoring the group more than him, Bobby angrily announces to the audience that this would be the last show he is seen performing with the group. This prompted Bobby to purposely toss his mike in the air and walk off stage with fury and disrespect over not getting his way in the spotlight. Fed up with Bobby's numerous behavioral and personality conflicts, Gary meets the group after the show to tell the boys that Bobby needs to be let out of the group. The band pitches a debatable argument with Gary to disagree, reminding him that Bobby is their friend who got them together seven years earlier. However, Gary counter-argued with the band, insisting that they should vote and be in favor of letting Bobby go. Matters become worse when the four mothers band together on the phone to gossip about the news of Bobby's actions and departure. The women left out Bobby's mother, Carole (Sandi McCree), who constantly makes attempts to call each mother individually. Later, Mike speaks with Jeff about Bobby's departure and doesn't know where the future of the band is heading. Jeff persuades Mike's mind to learn about the business side of the industry because of his savvy-like behavior. While Mike was discussing with Jeff, he looks at a record, on which he and the group (including Brown) appeared a year earlier. He didn't know what Fast Break productions was, because he thought they were originally signed to MCA. A few days later, this caused Mike to take action as he stormed through the MCA office asking what it is. Jheryl reveals and breaks down over how a production deal works and finds out the actual position of Gary. Mike then gets told by Jheryl, "Welcome to the music business", after giving him a brief lesson on the business side of the music spectrum.
While backstage preparing for Soul Train, Mike shares the news with the band. He says that he's going to potentially settle the discrepancy and make their own deal with MCA. Meanwhile at Bobby's home, Bobby watches their performance of "Count Me Out" while doing drugs. His mother approaches him that someone wants to see him. Bobby then finds out it's Jheryl. He tells Bobby he's looking to save his life from drugs, because his behavior is doing him more harm than good. He grants him to have a solo deal with MCA as a way out and Bobby later records his debut solo album. In 1987, Ralph moves in with his girlfriend. During the conversation, she tries to convince him to take a chance to go solo. Mike sets up a meeting to meet Gary, hiding the fact that, along with meeting him one on one, he brought a lawyer, who knew Gary personally. The meeting turned sour as Mike expressed himself, letting Gary know he's was being fired. The band meets at Ralph's house to discuss changes being made. Ralph decides to share his visions of going solo, playing his tracks he secretly recorded on the side. However, the band starts to feel like it wasn't the time to do it. Ralph expresses himself angrily and stands up for himself, while expressing how he really feels about the rest of the group. Mike then speaks upon making further moves by coming up with a plan. On another day, Ralph meets with Jheryl, who persuades him that he'll let him do a solo album in two years. Then, he tells Ralph that if he continues to record with New Edition one more time, he promises to make his money back. The band flies to Minneapolis, Minnesota to begin recording with Jimmy Jam and Terry Lewis. Ralph appears late to the session and questions on why Johnny is at the session with the group. Ralph feels emotionally threatened by his appearance. The band mates start to patronize Ralph for trying to depart in his own ways. Ralph takes offense and leaves the studio as Mike starts giving Johnny lyrics to songs, which Ralph was originally intended to sing. On a separate recording session, Johnny Gill is recording his parts, and Ralph arrives. The producers end the session and Ralph and Johnny took a private moment to open up about their personal lives. They both found out that they both had something in common. They were being played by Jheryl to take on solo careers and the promises it would bring. They settle their various differences and the group comes together to record "(Can You Stand The Rain)". The producers had an epiphany that it would be an instant hit. The band gathers for their photo shoot for their fifth cover album They felt the vibe was just right, also feeling that they've reached their mark of maturity. Weeks later, New Edition and Brooke Payne prepare to shoot a music video for one of their singles, and MCA's A&R/business partner Louis Silas Jr. (Duane Martin) does a surprise visit to talk about the forthcoming tour. However, Silas makes a shocking reveal that Bobby Brown will be joining them on the tour.
Part Three[edit]
A Fork in the Road - 1988-1990
Months after the video shoot, New Edition releases their new single "If It Isn't Love" and performs it on the NE Heartbreak tour. Meanwhile, at the Paramount Pictures studio, Bobby Brown (who has skyrocketed to super-stardom with his second album Don't Be Cruel) prepares for his "Every Little Step" music video. He is seen getting his hair cut by his swift smack-talking professional barber (DC Young Fly), who wasn't attentive enough at his job, trying to get the video girls' attention. He makes a mistake and cuts a chunk of Bobby's hair off, leaving a slant on Bobby's hair. At first, Bobby was furious with his barber, but is told that he has only a few minutes left before shooting the video. The barber fixed it up of what would be Bobby's signature "Gumby" style haircut. Surprisingly, Bobby went with it, making it marketable and wearing it comfortably as he dances in his video. New Edition continues their tour and goes on between Al B. Sure! (Josh David) and their former band mate, Bobby Brown. After Bobby asks if the group is going to let him sing Jealous Girl and Mr. Telephone Man with them, Mike responds that Johnny will do it. This led Bobby to become enraged over losing his solo spots he was originally supposed to sing with them. Additionally, Bobby didn't take it kindly, letting the group know that the audience favors him more. However, it didn't stop their show. In Washington, D.C., the group performed their second hit "You're Not My Kind of Girl". Later that night after the concert, the band exited towards their bus. They saw another group of young male fans from Philadelphia, who huddled towards the bus. The boys ask if Mike had a moment of his time to hear them sing. Although Mike was hesitant, he was willing to give them a fair share. They sang New Edition's song, "Can You Stand The Rain" and it caught Mike's attention. When Mike asked them what their name of their group was, Nate, who is one of the group members, was nervous to say it. He and his friends thought it might come off corny, but told Mike that their group name was Boyz II Men. Then, Mike gave them his business card and said he would be in contact.
In 1989, at a celebration for the success of both New Edition and Bobby Brown on the HeartBreak Tour, Brooke made a toast and acknowledged that the cakes are made in their honor. Bobby interrupted the speech with his cocky behavior, expressing that they're both his cakes. The first one being that he started the group. Later that night during the celebration, Johnny voices his concerns to Jheryl about switching record labels. Then, he moves to Motown with Jheryl to record his self-titled third album, while Jimmy Jam and Terry Lewis encourages Ricky, Ronnie, and Mike to start their own group as a trio. At first, they are hesitant, but then figure that it would be a good idea. On the other side of the party, Ralph is annoyed by now that he has to start all over with his self-titled debut album because of everything he wanted to do. Bobby already did with Don't Be Cruel and the A&R, Louil, tries to reason with Ralph to make better content. Over on the far side of the yard, Bobby starts to go on a severely internal and emotional envious rage about his band mates.
In March 1990, all six members of New Edition reunite by making an appearance for Video Soul with Sherry Carter. There is clearly awkwardness and tension during the interview, especially between Ralph and Mike. The show also airs each of the separate acts' music videos. The videos such as BBD's "Poison", Ralph Tresvant's "Sensitivity", and Johnny Gill's "My, My, My". The tension was clearly visible between the band mates, as each member bluntly ego-tripped to promote themselves, while shadowing the other band mate. When Bobby was asked how it felt to be back around the group since their separation, he jokingly made remarks about hoping to get back with the group. The men made jokes that it could possibly happen, while showing their doubts that it would happen. Johnny expressed what it was like to go back solo after the separation. Then, the host asked the most anticipated question, "Would the group ever reunite for a new album?" Ralph spoke out to say that there was a possibility to record a reunion album in the coming future.
Are we "Home Again" or not? - 1996-1997
After six years of separate success, New Edition reunited for another album and they have a photo shoot for their album cover. During the shoot, Mike and Ronnie talk about how Ralph is handling his mother's passing and is still being able to make effort to tour. Ricky expresses to Johnny that he's happy to be back on tour, but Ricky (Elijah Kelley) is hiding the fact he's drinking, doing drugs, and popping pills. Bobby Brown seemed to be either intoxicated or high as he falls asleep on the couch, where the group was to be photo shot. At the start of the tour, each band mate arrived to the hotel in their own tour buses, carrying a number load of their personal entourage. Brooke took surprise to witness their newfound behavior. Then, he speaks to Jeff, who is a former bodyguard turned good friend, about how they are all suffering from being in debt and their second albums failed to succeed. As more tours arrive, the group gets upset that Bobby has been missing from performing shows and missing countless interviews. They all agreed to go on without him instead. After the performance was over, Bobby arrives late. He was ready to perform in his most severely egotistical attitude. Although they dismiss him, Bobby lets it apparently be known that the fans are actually there waiting to see him. Although Bobby asks his band one last time to join him, the band tells him to have his moment. Months later, back at Ricky's home, Ricky watches the news of Bobby Brown from behind. He was snorting cocaine and hides it when Amy, his wife, gets home from the store. She senses that something is wrong, worrying about both his health and his hygiene. However, he brushes her off.
Back on the tour, Bobby Brown is on stage, telling the audience that his set is over. However, he detests he doesn't want to leave. He begins to perform his song "My Prerogative". Backstage, both Ricky and Mike, the two members of BBD, were waiting for Ronnie, who had arrived late, to come. He finally arrived and asked how long Bobby is going to continue to perform, because it's their turn to perform. Ronnie takes matters into his own hands instead. He walks out on stage in the middle of Bobby's performance, grabs his microphone, and orders the DJ to play BBD's set. Bobby goes to approach Ronnie and comforts him, whispering in his ear. Ronnie replies back with his true emotion towards him. Then, Bobby walks off stage with boiling anger at not getting his way onstage once again, as BBD performs their set. While backstage, Bobby becomes more frustrated and rants to his personal bodyguard about putting an end to it. Bobby breaks the fire hose chamber and rushes to the wings of the stage trying to unleash the water, but it wouldn't come out. He then decided to find another way to stop their performance by storming and stomping in the middle of their set and attack Ronnie instead. A brawl between the group and entourage breaks out. Then, a random person from the entourage draws a gun and blasts a shot. Chaos erupts as the audience runs and everyone is in distress. However, Brooke is seen having a heart attack, while all the drama is unfolding. Ronnie finds his uncle on the ground and he yells for help. Brooke is placed in the ambulance and everyone is acting hysterical, because the EMTs told Ronnie that he can't go to the ER with his uncle. The band mates try to console Ronnie from going insane as the ambulance pulls away, and Bobby appears, asking what happened to Brooke. Ronnie took offense to the statement that he charged at Bobby. He also lets Bobby know that the ordeal, which he instigated, is entirely his fault. Ronnie angrily walks away, arguing with the group, who continues to baby and defend Bobby. While Bobby confidently ranted out at the group that all of his success he was doing them was a favor, Johnny Gill challenged him on that. As Bobby walks out in anger, he confesses that the group is over. Ricky tries to save the group from failing, but Mike gives in and believes the group is better off staying split.
Souls falling apart / Finding myself - 1998-2004
As the years start to pass, five out of six band mates find themselves involved in many various situations: some new, some bad, and some good. Ricky's life is in turmoil, dealing with bankruptcy and losing his home. Although his wife tries to support him, he recalls losing money due to paying back tour expenses because of the damages that had done. He starts to give up hope. Johnny's situation was good. He does an interview, talking about his success with a new group he joined called LSG. He rather focuses on that than on another New Edition reunion sequel. Ronnie enrolls himself into Real Estate classes, but feels like his life may be a rock bottom. Mike became a music executive at his own label, but is dealing with the pressures of handling artists and trying to resolve their multiple issues. Ralph battles a bitter divorce with his wife and pleads to no-contest. Back at Ricky's house, he was seen in the bathroom, suddenly overdosing on the drugs by throwing up in the toilet. Amy rushes to the their bathroom, coming to his aid and seeing what has happened. He later admits himself into rehab the next day. Ricky admits that he's not only addicted to drugs, but that he was used to having success. He also needs to come to reality that it may not come back. Ronnie struggles with wedding planning with his wife, but she convinces him that he's hiding the fact that Ronnie wants to bring the group back together. However, he believes they're great together. Unfortunately, he just can't resolve it and put their careers into focus because of both the egos and behavior.
I am my Brother's Keeper / BET 25th Celebration - 2005
Later that year, Ronnie pumps himself up, getting prepared for his wedding. Bobby Brown knocks on the door and surprises him, telling him he didn't want to miss his wedding. Ronnie offered a drink, but Bobby admits he's on a break from his habits. One by one, the fellow group mates arrive, surprising him. Mike and Ralph decide to settle their various differences. Later on during the reception, Mike speaks to Ralph about being the next to wed. As they rekindle their relationship, Mike admits the truth revealing about the shake-up of the group. It was being caused by him, revealing that Johnny was actually the replacement for Ralph and not Bobby. They speak upon that for a small second, but Ralph dwells into the past. He wished that all the things they went through together shouldn't had been necessary, because the problems were bigger than them. Mike agrees and tells him as they age it out as they mature them. The reception is then interrupted by Brooke Payne, who makes a toast to both his nephew and newlywed niece. However, he expresses his love for New Edition as a whole. Reminiscing over the years that he's raised them and was thankful to be part of their success, he makes a toast to them as well. After that, the band mates serenaded Ronnie's wife with their song "Candy Girl". As they are having fun, Payne is approached by a producer of BET. He shares his idea of having a New Edition reunion at their 25th Anniversary special. Brooke co-signs it, but is told that it would have to be put together as fast as possible. BET welcomes New Edition to perform a medley of songs at the televised celebration. The band performs their classic hit singles "If It Isn't Love", "Can You Stand the Rain", "Candy Girl", and "Cool It Now" Then, the band introduced Bobby Brown to perform "Mr. Telephone Man". They then gave him the floor to perform his solo classic hit single "My Prerogative". Bobby then invites the group along to perform with him (highlights of New Edition life moments are reflected throughout the medley). They all take a bow and give props and credit to BET for their long standing partnership as a final sendoff. The end credits display a video montage of the past memories and history of the group
Development[edit]
Production[edit]
In August 2015, it was announced that BET commissioned the television film that would air as a three night miniseries. Five of the group's members--Ricky Bell, Michael Bivins, Ronnie DeVoe, Johnny Gill and Ralph Tresvant, had signed on as co-producers, while Bobby Brown did not. In addition, the band's longtime manager Brooke Payne had also been tapped as a co-producer and the film was to be written by Abdul Williams who wrote the 2010 film Lottery Ticket. Jesse Collins of the network's Real Husbands of Hollywood would serve as executive producer.[2] Collins later reported that production would air in 2017.[3] In April 2016, it was confirmed that Brown had also signed on as co-producer.[4] It was also announced that ATL director Chris Robinson would direct the film.[5] In November 2016, it was announced that iconic producers Kenneth "Babyface" Edmonds and Jimmy Jam and Terry Lewis had been recruited to oversee the music production.[6]
Casting[edit]
Casting for the series began in Boston in January 2016.[7][8] In April 2016, the network announced that Empire star Bryshere Y. Gray would portray Michael Bivins. The rest of cast included actor and singer Elijah Kelley as Ricky, R&B singer Luke James as Johnny, Algee Smith as Ralph, Keith Powers as Ronnie, and Woody McClain as Bobby Brown.[9] In addition, Dante Hoagland, Caleb McLaughlin, Myles Truitt, Jahi Winston, and Tyler Marcel Williams would portray younger versions of Michael, Ricky, Ronnie, Ralph and Bobby respectively.[4] In May 2016, La La Anthony, Yvette Nicole Brown, Monica Calhoun, Lisa Nicole Carson and Sandi McCree would join the cast as the mothers of the group members: Flo DeVoe, Shirley Bivins, Patricia Tresvant, Mae Bell and Carole Brown.[10] Several others joined the cast later that month including Wood Harris as Brooke Payne, Michael Rapaport as Gary Evans, Wallace Smith as Jeff Dyson, Faizon Love as Maurice Starr, Duane Martin as Louil Silas, singer Tank as Jheryl Busby and actress/rapper Bre-Z as Peanut Bell.[11]
Promotion[edit]
The first trailer for the film was unveiled on June 26, 2016, at the 26th annual BET Awards.[12] In July 2016, BET released a photo of the cast recreating the group's iconic album cover for the 1996 release Home Again.[13] In September 2016, BET announced the official premiere date for the film which would air on January 24, 25 and 26, 2017.[14] The network also released an extended trailer which highlighted the legendary onstage brawl between Bobby Brown and Bell Biv DeVoe after Brown went solo.[15] The UrbanWorld Film Festival hosted an exclusive screening of several clips.[16]
Reception[edit]
Ratings[edit]
The film's premiere was watched by 4.2 million viewers, making it BET's most watched premiere since the 2012 season premiere of the sitcom The Game, which drew 5.2 million.[17][18] The second and final episodes brought in 3.96 million and 4.23 million viewers respectively, making the miniseries the top rated cable program for three consecutive nights.[19][20]
Critical[edit]
The New Edition Story has garnered acclaim from critics. It currently has a 100% rating on Rotten Tomatoes, along with the consensus being, "The New Edition Story colorfully showcases its subjects with honesty and clarity while offering an entertainingly paced overview that leaves room for plenty of the group's greatest hits".[21] The film received rave reviews for the child actors who portrayed younger versions of New Edition in the first part of the series. Sylvia Obell of Buzzfeed praised the casting as "absolute perfection" and rated it an A+. Obell compared the film to another iconic television miniseries -- "it is on its way to being the best black TV biopic since The Jacksons: An American Dream" which aired on ABC in 1992. The most talked about similarities is the uncanny "jawdropping" striking resemblance of the young Bobby Brown, portrayed by Tyler Marcel Williams, who nailed the looks, demeanor and Bobby's most iconic "body roll". Also another uncanny resemblance were of the vocals of the young Ralph Tresvant, portrayed by Jahi Di'Allo Winston. For viewers, hearing his first lead solo appearance in the film singing "Candy Girl" gave chills for nailing every note.[22] Trey Mangum of Blavity said that BET "outdid" themselves, saying "With the warm reception and open arms that the world received The New Edition Story with, it's clear that this story needed to be told, and this was the perfect time." Mangum complimented the "spot-on" casting of both the young and adult casts, as well as the fact both casts recorded their own vocals, a rarity for musical biopics.[23]
During an interview with Bell Biv DeVoe on the radio show, The Breakfast Club, co-host Angela Yee described the casting for the film as "fantastic." Michael Bivins praised Algee Smith's portrayal of Tresvant and said he was "real nice, sliding into the most difficult spot." Smith did an outstanding job portraying Tresvant, especially for his first major role, and displayed amazing vocals somewhat similar to Tresvant's himself. Bivins' own mother pushed for Gray during the casting process.[24] In another interview, Ricky Bell along with Bivins praised Elijah Kelley for his portrayal of Ricky in the film. Bell further praised young actor Caleb McLaughlin for his portrayal as well. Bell was amazed by McLaughlin's attention to detail.[25]
References[edit]


^ Kennedy, Gerrick D. "BET didn't skim on authenticity for 'The New Edition Story'". Los Angeles Times. tronc. Retrieved January 26, 2017. 
^ Goldberg, Lesley (August 10, 2015). "New Edition Biopic Set for BET — Without Bobby Brown". The Hollywood Reporter. Prometheus Global Media. Retrieved January 25, 2017. 
^ "Jesse Collins: The Producer Behind All Of The Award Shows You Tweet About". Vibe. Prometheus Global Media. October 13, 2015. Retrieved January 25, 2017. 
^ a b Sweeney, Emily (April 25, 2016). "Cast is set for New Edition biopic". The Boston Globe. Retrieved January 25, 2017. 
^ "NEW EDITION: Movie Cast Announced". iHeartMedia. April 23, 2016. Retrieved January 25, 2017. 
^ Platon, Adelle (November 2, 2016). "BET's 'The New Edition Story' Recruits Jimmy Jam, Terry Lewis & Babyface: Exclusive". Billboard. Prometheus Global Media. Retrieved January 25, 2017. 
^ Goldstein, Meredith (January 11, 2016). "Casting call for a New Edition miniseries on BET". The Boston Globe. Retrieved January 25, 2017. 
^ Incollingo, Joe (January 19, 2016). "Young New Edition fans audition for BET biopic". Retrieved January 25, 2017. 
^ Holub, Christian (April 21, 2016). "Empire star Bryshere Y. Gray cast in New Edition biopic". Entertainment Weekly. Time Inc. Retrieved January 25, 2017. 
^ Petski, Denise (May 5, 2016). "La La Anthony, Yvette Nicole Brown, Monica Calhoun Among Five Cast In 'New Edition: The Movie' On BET". Deadline.com. Penske Media Corporation. Retrieved January 25, 2017. 
^ Petski, Denise (May 19, 2016). "'New Edition: The Movie': Wood Harris, Michael Rapaport, Faizon Love & More Join Cast". Deadline.com. Penske Media Corporation. Retrieved January 25, 2017. 
^ Davis, Shanice (June 27, 2016). "BET Unveils Epic Trailer For 'The New Edition Story'". Vibe. Prometheus Global Media. Retrieved January 25, 2016. 
^ Lewis, Taylor (July 21, 2016). "Calling All Candy Girls! 'The New Edition Story' Cast Recreates Iconic Pic". Essence. Time Inc. Retrieved January 25, 2017. 
^ Platon, Adelle (September 27, 2016). "BET's 'The New Edition Story' Sets Premiere Date, Releases Super Trailer: Exclusive". Billboard. Prometheus Global Media. Retrieved January 25, 2017. 
^ Blistein, Jon (September 27, 2016). "Watch Bobby Brown Brawl With Bell Biv DeVoe in New Biopic Trailer". Rolling Stone. Wenner Media LLC. Retrieved January 25, 2017. 
^ "NEW EDITION FILM AT URBANWORLD FILM FESTIVAL". Jet. September 14, 2016. Retrieved January 25, 2017. 
^ Schwindt, Oriana (January 25, 2017). "BET Hits Ratings Paydirt With 'The New Edition Story' Miniseries". Variety. Penske Media Corporation. Retrieved January 26, 2017. 
^ Andreeva, Nellie (January 25, 2017). "'Outsiders' Solid In Return On WGN America, 'The New Edition Story' Opens To Big Ratings On BET". Deadline.com. Penske Media Corporation. Retrieved January 26, 2017. 
^ Welch, Alex (January 26, 2017). "Wednesday cable ratings: 'The New Edition Story' wins second night, 'The Magicians' hits series high". TV By The Numbers. Retrieved January 28, 2017. 
^ Welch, Alex (January 26, 2017). "Thursday cable ratings: 'The New Edition Story' rises with its final episode". TV By The Numbers. Retrieved January 28, 2017. 
^ "The New Edition Story: Season 1 - Rotten Tomatoes". Rotten Tomatoes. Fandango. Retrieved January 26, 2017. 
^ Obell, Sylvia. "The Child Actors From "New Edition Story" Are Absolute Perfection". BuzzFeed. BuzzFeed Inc. Retrieved January 26, 2017. 
^ Mangum, Trey. "11 reasons why 'The New Edition Story' was absolutely epic". Blavity. Blavity Inc. Retrieved January 28, 2017. 
^ New Edition; Bell Biv DeVoe; The New Edition Story (January 26, 2017). "Bell Biv DeVoe Discusses The New Edition Story & More on The Breakfast Club". The Breakfast Club (radio). Interview with DJ Envy, Angela Yee and Charlamagne Tha God. New York City: Premiere Radio Networks. Retrieved January 28, 2017. 
^ https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CacOFhIb60I


External links[edit]

The New Edition Story on IMDb







v
t
e


New Edition






Ricky Bell
Michael Bivins
Bobby Brown
Ronnie DeVoe
Johnny Gill
Ralph Tresvant





Albums



Candy Girl
New Edition
All for Love
Christmas All Over the World
Under the Blue Moon
Heart Break
Home Again
One Love





Singles



"Candy Girl" (1983)
"Is This the End" (1983)
"Popcorn Love/Jealous Girl" (1983)
"Cool It Now" (1984)
"Mr. Telephone Man" (1984)
"Lost in Love" (1985)
"My Secret (Didja Gitit Yet?)" (1985)
"Count Me Out" (1985)
"If It Isn't Love" (1988)
"You're Not My Kind of Girl" (1988)
"Can You Stand the Rain" (1988)
"Crucial" (1989)
"N.E. Heart Break" (1989)
"Hit Me Off" (1996)
"I'm Still in Love with You" (1996)
"Something About You" (1996)
"One More Day" (1997)
"Hot 2Nite" (2004)





Related articles



Discography
Bell Biv DeVoe
LSG
Jimmy Jam & Terry Lewis
Maurice Starr
New Kids on the Block
Heads of State
The New Edition Story






 Book:New Edition








 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=The_New_Edition_Story&oldid=808622104"					
Categories: 2017 television filmsAfrican-American televisionAmerican biographical filmsAmerican filmsAmerican television filmsFilms based on actual eventsFilms set in the 1980sFilms set in the 1990sHidden categories: Wikipedia articles with plot summary needing attention from January 2017All Wikipedia articles with plot summary needing attentionPages using infobox television with alias parametersArticles needing additional references from February 2017All articles needing additional references 
