Touchstone: Dancing with Angels - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search








This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages)







The topic of this article may not meet Wikipedia's notability guideline for films. Please help to establish notability by citing reliable secondary sources that are independent of the topic and provide significant coverage of it beyond its mere trivial mention. If notability cannot be established, the article is likely to be merged, redirected, or deleted.
Find sources: "Touchstone: Dancing with Angels" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (February 2011) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)









This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (February 2011) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)









This article is an orphan, as no other articles link to it. Please introduce links to this page from related articles; try the Find link tool for suggestions. (February 2012)





(Learn how and when to remove this template message)





Touchstone: Dancing With Angels


Directed by
D.S. Fine


Produced by
D.S. Fine
Holly Danyliw


Music by
Peter Sky


Edited by
Rebecca Rideout



Release date




May 16, 2008 (2008-05-16) (Northampton premiere)









Country
United States


Language
English


Touchstone: Dancing With Angels is a 2008 widescreen documentary focusing on the people, history, and current plight of Touchstone Farm in Easthampton, Massachusetts.[1] The film was developed by director and cinematographer D.S. Fine, with the help of editor Rebecca Rideout, associate producer Holly Danyliw, and composer Peter Sky.



Contents


1 Plot
2 Main Cast
3 See also
4 References
5 External links



Plot[edit]
This Easthampton documentary captures the story Touchstone Farm's founders, George "Shaker" McNeil and Anja Daniel, and their rise from adversity to advantage. In the spring of 2006, building inspections closed down the operations at the center. Later, McNeil and Daniel managed to raise funds and garner international support.[2]
Main Cast[edit]

Anja Daniel
George "Shaker" McNeil
Deborah Georgianne Hall-McNeil
Jah Free
Eugene Connelly
Rowan Scott
Dan Kinsey
Star Drooker
Ron Catabia
Phyllis Rodin
Jose Rizal

See also[edit]
Independent film
References[edit]



^ Scheinbaum, Chase (May 14, 2008). "Pick of the Week: A Bumper Crop". Retrieved 18 February 2011. 
^ Brown, Jack (September 17, 2009). "Cinema Dope: Hello Dolly". The Valley Advocate. Retrieved 18 February 2011. 



External links[edit]

Official site
Touchstone: Dancing with Angels on IMDb





This article about a documentary film is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.


v
t
e









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Touchstone:_Dancing_with_Angels&oldid=725002440"					
Categories: 2008 filmsEnglish-language filmsMassachusetts film and televisionAmerican independent filmsAmerican documentary filmsAmerican filmsDocumentary films about agriculture in the United StatesDocumentary film stubsHidden categories: Articles with topics of unclear notability from February 2011All articles with topics of unclear notabilityArticles needing additional references from February 2011All articles needing additional referencesOrphaned articles from February 2012All orphaned articlesAll stub articles 
