UCLA Film and Television Archive - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search







This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (March 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)



The UCLA Film & Television Archive is an internationally renowned visual arts organization focused on the preservation, study, and appreciation of film and television, based at the University of California, Los Angeles. It holds more than 220,000 film and television titles and 27 million feet of newsreel footage, a collection second only to the Library of Congress in Washington, D.C. It has more media materials than any other university in the world.
Also a nonprofit exhibition venue, the archive screens over 400 films and videos a year, primarily at the Billy Wilder Theater, located inside the Hammer Museum in Westwood, California. (Formerly, it screened films at the James Bridges Theater on the UCLA campus). The archive is funded by UCLA, public and private interests, and the entertainment industry. It is a member of the International Federation of Film Archives.



Contents


1 The collection
2 Billy Wilder Theater
3 See also
4 References
5 External links



The collection[edit]
The archive's holdings include 35mm collections from Paramount Pictures, 20th Century Fox, Warner Bros., Sony/Columbia Pictures, New World Pictures, Orion Pictures, MGM, United Artists, Universal, RKO and Republic Pictures. Independent films. Additional film donations have been made by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, the American Film Institute, and the Directors Guild of America as well as such figures including Hal Ashby, Tony Curtis, Charlton Heston, Orson Welles, Rock Hudson, Jeff Chandler, Radley Metzger, Richard Conte, Audie Murphy, John McIntire, John Wayne, Fred MacMurray[1] and William Wyler. It also holds the entire Hearst Metrotone News Library. The archive is also known for holding over 300 kinescope prints from the now-defunct DuMont Television Network. The archive also holds restored prints of Paramount Pictures' cartoon library. Much of the Archive's collection is available for onsite research by appointment at the Archive's Research & Study Center (ARSC), located on the UCLA campus in Powell Library. ARSC clients often go to the UCLA Media Lab (Room 270) to view their media.
Billy Wilder Theater[edit]
The Billy Wilder Theater is on the courtyard level of the Hammer Museum. Equipped with the highest standards of film and video projection and sound, the theater, which cost $7.5 million to complete, is one of the few in the country where audiences may watch the entire spectrum of moving images in their original formats: from the earliest silent films requiring variable speed projection to the most current digital cinema and video. Though built first of all as an ideal screening room for the moving image, the theater also provides an intimate and technically advanced showcase for events including artists’ lectures, literary readings, musical concerts, and public conversations.
Made possible by a $5 million gift from Audrey L. Wilder and designed by Michael Maltzan Architecture, the state-of-the-art, 295-seat Billy Wilder Theater is the home of the archive’s cinematheque and of the Hammer’s public programs. The theater offers one of the most advanced, comfortable, and intimate cultural venues on the West Coast, where the museum and the archive present their programs.
See also[edit]

Packard Humanities Institute

References[edit]


^ Staff (June 2, 2011). "Smooth Operator: The Opulent Eroticism of Radley Metzger". UCLA Film and Television Archive. Retrieved January 28, 2016. 


External links[edit]

UCLA Film & Television Archive website







v
t
e


University of California, Los Angeles




Located in: Westwood, Los Angeles, California



Academics



College of Letters and Science
Henry Samueli School of Engineering and Applied Science
Anderson School of Management
David Geffen School of Medicine
Graduate School of Education and Information Studies
School of Dentistry
School of Law
School of Nursing
Luskin School of Public Affairs
School of Public Health
School of the Arts and Architecture
School of Theater, Film & Television








Knowledge



California NanoSystems Institute
Center for Embedded Network Sensing
Center for the Study of Women
Chicano Studies Research Center
Film and Television Archive
Hammer Museum
Library
Phonological Segment Inventory Database
Language Materials Project
Institute for Research on Labor and Employment
UCLA Medical Center, Santa Monica





Campus



Botanical Garden
Drake Stadium
Clark Library
Fowler Museum
Jackie Robinson Stadium
L.A. Tennis Center
Pauley Pavilion
Powell Library
Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center
Royce Hall
Sculpture Garden
Spieker Aquatics Center
Stephanie and Spy
Student housing
Young Research Library





Athletics




Programs



Bruins

Baseball
Men's basketball
Women's basketball
Football
Gymnastics
Men's soccer
Women's soccer
Women's volleyball







Rivalries



Arizona
California
Notre Dame
USC





Culture



Joe Bruin
Rose Bowl
Marching Band
"Hail to the Hills of Westwood"
"Sons of Westwood"
"Mighty Bruins"
True Blue








Life



Daily Bruin
JazzReggae Festival
Spring Sing
Westwood





Associated institutions



Harbor–UCLA Medical Center
Olive View–UCLA Medical Center
UCLA Lab School
Hannah Carter Japanese Garden





Topics



History

2006 Taser incident
2016 shooting


People
UCLA Blue








Founded: 1919










 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=UCLA_Film_and_Television_Archive&oldid=792736729"					
Categories: Film archives in the United StatesFilm preservation organizationsTelevision archives in the United StatesUniversity of California, Los AngelesCinema of Southern CaliforniaHidden categories: Articles needing additional references from March 2017All articles needing additional references 
