V-me - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



V-me





Launched
March 5, 2007 (10 years ago) (2007-03-05)


Owned by
V-me Media Inc.


Picture format
480i (SDTV)


Slogan
V-me Televisión Diferente (English: V-me done differently)


Country
United States


Language
Spanish


Headquarters
Miami, Florida


Sister channel(s)
V-me Kids
Primo TV


Website
www.vmetv.com



Availability



Satellite


DirecTV
440


Dish Network
846


IPTV


AT&T U-verse
3015


V-me (Spanish pronunciation: [ˈbeme], a pun on veme, "watch me") is a Spanish broadcast television network formerly carried in association with public television stations created for the United States Hispanic market, which is currently pursuing a pay-TV model. V-me delivers drama, music, current affairs, food, lifestyle, nature and educational pre-school content to its viewers.



Contents


1 History

1.1 Carriage


2 Programming
3 Former Broadcast Affiliates
4 References
5 External links



History[edit]
The 24-hour digital broadcast service was launched on March 5, 2007, and it is dedicated to entertain, educate and inspire families in Spanish with a contemporary mix of original productions, exclusive premieres, acquisitions, and popular public television programs from PBS and American Public Television, specially adapted for Hispanics.[1][2]
The first venture of the media production and distribution company V-me Television Media Inc., it is a public-private partnership between WNET, a non-commercial educational public television station licensed to Newark, New Jersey, and the investment firm Baeza Group, the venture capital firm Syncom Funds, and Grupo PRISA from Spain, one of the world's largest Spanish and Portuguese-language media companies.[3][4] WNET is a minority partner in the for-profit venture.[1]
In April 2013, a Florida-based private investor group took control of V-me Media, Inc., the U.S. Hispanic content and distribution company that owns Spanish-language network V-me and V-me Kids. Financial terms of the deal and the percentage of the ownership of the new investors was not disclosed. The V-me Board includes former AOL executive and founder and CEO of DailyMe.com, chairman of the board, Syncom managing partner Terry Jones and WNET’s VP and general counsel Robert Feinberg. V-me founder, Mario Baeza, stepped down as chairman, but will continue to have an ownership interest. LPM is the largest stakeholder in V-me.
Among the journalists who have worked for V-me are Jorge Gestoso, Juan Manuel Benitez, Luis Sarmiento, Alonso Castillo, Jackeline Cacho and Marián de la Fuente.
Carriage[edit]
In December 2016, V-me announced that it would phase out its affiliations with PBS stations during 2017, following the expiration of the network's 10-year contracts with many of these stations, and transition exclusively to being broadcast on ten over-the-air affiliates and as a cable and satellite channel. One of V-me's over-the-air affiliates were dropped by March 31, 2017; many of these affiliates had already chosen to replace V-me with a 24-hour PBS Kids channel, which launched in January 16, 2017.[5] V-me lost several of its affiliates upon the launch of the PBS Kids channel.
Programming[edit]
The network broadcasts a variety of programming in Spanish:

Latino-focused lifestyle content: health, parenting, travel, food, home, design, self-improvement and sports programs
Prime time drama series
News and current affairs, with Oppenheimer Presenta and Jorge Gestoso Investiga
Nature documentaries from BBC, National Geographic and PBS
Latin films and TV miniseries
Original music series, like Estudio Billboard
Weekly arts and pop culture specials
Educational preschool programs in Spanish (40 hours a week); children's television shows include:

Franny's Feet (Los Pies Mágicos de Franny)
Hairy Legs (Mi Amigo Harry)
Hi Opie!
hoopla doopla!
Kambu
Luli's Wonder Days
Mouk Shorts
Mundo Peque Bebé
Mundo Peque Cine
Mundo Peque Cocina
Mundo Peque Mascota
Mundo Peque Música
Mundo Peque Planeta
Plaza Sésamo
Space Racers (Exploradores Espaciales)
UMIGO (2012 TV Series)
Vitaminix
Vroomiz
Zoobabu



Former Broadcast Affiliates[edit]
Main article: List of V-me affiliates
References[edit]



^ a b Everhart, Karen. "Multicast channels crowd bitstream: Vme TV, in Spanish, joins options for stations’ DTV broadcasts." Current. February 12, 2007. Retrieved July 18, 2011.
^ Vme TV - Sponsors. Retrieved July 18, 2011.
^ Elizabeth Jensen (February 7, 2007). "Public Television Plans A Network for Latinos" (PDF). New York Times. Archived from the original (PDF) on July 24, 2011. Retrieved December 14, 2012. 
^ Dru Sefton (April 23, 2012). "PubTV multicaster Vme TV faulted for airing 'ordinary commercials'". Current.org. Retrieved December 14, 2012. 
^ Sefton, Dru (December 14, 2016). "Spanish-language multicaster Vme will soon drop public TV service". Current. Retrieved December 31, 2016. 



External links[edit]

Official website





 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=V-me&oldid=812521085"					
Categories: 2007 establishments in the United StatesTelevision channels and stations established in 2007Commercial-free television networksCorporation for Public BroadcastingPublic television in the United StatesSpanish-language television networks in the United States 
