Working in the Theatre (series) - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

Working in the Theatre is the American Theatre Wing’s documentary series created to highlight the theatre industry's inner-workings. The series profiles notable members of the industry, and provides a closer look at unique stories and important work. Working in the Theatre aims to inform audiences about typically less well-known aspects of the theatre by sharing The Wing's extensive knowledge of the industry. The series has been running for more than four decades, and has featured extraordinary work from numerous members of the industry. Working in the Theatre receives leadership support from Doris Duke Charitable Foundation and The Dorothy Strelsin Foundation. The series is also supported, in part, by the New York City Department of Cultural Affairs in partnership with the City Council and the New York State Council on the Arts with the support of Governor Andrew Cuomo and the New York State Legislature.[1][2]



Contents


1 History
2 Current production
3 Episode list
4 Notable guests
5 Awards and recognition[7]
6 Related content
7 References



History[edit]
Since its creation in 1976, Working in the Theatre has evolved from a television-broadcast seminar panel to an award-winning web series highlighting typically less recognized aspects of the theatre industry. Now in its 39th season, the program has long been an integral part of the various programs presented by the American Theatre Wing. In addition to Working in the Theatre, The Wing produces the annual Tony Awards, Obie Awards, and Hewes Design Awards. Other programs created by The Wing include the Jonathan Larson Grants, National Theatre Co. Grants, Andrew Lloyd Webber Initiative, and the Songwriting Challenge.
Working in the Theatre was initially broadcast from the Graduate Center of the City University of New York, led by Wing chair at the time Isabelle Stevenson, and moderated by various board members. Until 2005, the series was only available for viewing on CUNY-TV, a local New York City television station, or at a few NYC libraries. In March of 2005 it was announced that The Wing would be releasing Working in the Theatre episodes for free streaming online.[3]
Current production[edit]
Working in the Theatre is currently released on The Wing’s YouTube channel. Full episodes usually run about 25 minutes, compared to the original panels which would last up to two hours. In July 2017, The Wing was $60,000 in National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) grants, $25,000 of which will directly support Working in the Theatre.[4][5][6]
Episode list[edit]


Season
Episodes


39
Theatre in Arkansas; Polyphone; Solo Performance; Playwriting; LIVE: A Doll’s House, Part 2; Programming; The Blueprint Specials; Curtain Up!; School of Rock


38
Clowning; Lighting Design; Ragtime on Ellis Island; The Ghosts of Lote Bravo; Casebook; White Rabbit Red Rabbit; Makeup; Choreography; Double Edge Theatre; Before the Show: Joel Perez; Sign Language Theatre; Under Construction; Manual Cinema; Marie’s Crisis


37
Arena Stage; Steppenwolf; Colossal - Olney, MD; Colossal - Minneapolis, MN; Projection Design - 59 Productions; Before the Show: Celia Keenan-Bolger; Society of London Theatre; The Globe; Prop Masters; Colossal - Dallas, TX; Scenic Design; Second City; Projection Design with Jeff Suggs; A Conversation with the Humans: LIVE


36
Reimagining Shakespeare; Playwrights; Immersive Theatre; Before the Show: Billy Porter/Patina Miller; Swings, Standbys, Understudies; Since I Suppose - Site Specific Theatre; Before the Show: Jessie Mueller/Lena Hall; Costumes; Puppets on Stage


35
America’s New Theatre Companies; Theatre’s Super Lawyers; The Impact of Regional Theatre; The Anatomy of a Song; Reimagining Musicals; Critics and Social Media; Setting the Stage


34
The Stage of Theatre: Institutions and Producers; Regional Theatre; Producers: A Creative Approach; The Playwright’s Voice; Casting Directors; Featured Performers 2012; Directors: Process & Collaboration; The Publicists’ World; Exploring Musical Theatre; The Tony Awards: History, Highlights, and Backstage


33
The Vocabulary of Dance: Choreographers 2010; Embracing Process: Directors 2010; Getting the Show on the Road; Compelling Stories: Playwrights 2011; Through Their Eyes: Actors 2011; The Characters Start Talking: Playwrights 2011; Don’t Be Afraid: Stage Veterans 2011; Theatre Journalism: Online and Off; Passion and Compassion: Actors 2011; Directors 2011; Challenges and Triumphs: Actors 2011; Behind the Curtain


32
Leading Ladies 2009; Regional Theatres; Beyond Broadway; Amazing Affinity: Actors 2009; Production: Next to Normal; The Play That Changed My Life; Producing’s New Voices; Understudies; Playwrights 2010; Developing Musical Theatre; Equal Exchange: Actors 2010; The Next Generation 2010


31
Actors Words, Writers Voice; Arias to Showstoppers: World of Opera and Theatre; 99 and Under; Making Ogre Broadway; Stage Veterans 2009; Consolation and Provocation: Playwrights 2009; New Writers, New Musicals: Jonathan Larson Grants 2009; Crafting Worlds: Theatrical Design; For the Record: Inside Cast Albums; At Work and Play: Lead Actors 2009; Fluidity and Change: Directors 2009; First and Loudest: the Marketing of Broadway


30
The Next Generation; Horton Foote’s America; From New Dramatists; Composers and Lyricists; Off-Broadway Companies; Featured Performers; Directors on Directing; Steppenwolf: From Chicago to Osage County; Unexpectedly Theatre; Performing Musicals; Demystifying the Classics; Producing Broadway


29
The Evolution of Encores!; Casting Directors; The Coast of Utopia; Leading Men; August Wilson’s Legacy; Artistic Directors


28
Critics; The Playwright; Production: The Drowsy Chaperone; Actors on Performing; Design; Directing; Producing Commercial Theatre Off-Broadway; Production: Grey Gardens; Leading Ladies; Playwrights


27
Stage Veterans; Off-Broadway; Musicals: Directors & Choreographers; Interpreting Tennessee Williams; Production: Dirty Rotten Scoundrels; Performance; Exploring Summer Theatre; Pop Music & the New Musical; Production: See What I Wanna See; Staging the Classics; Producing Commercial Theatre; Actors on Performing 2005


26
New Plays & Playwrights; Performance; Producing New Plays for Broadway; Caroline, or Change; Playwrights; Puppetry & Theatre; Not-For-Profits of Broadway; Performance; Humor in Performance


25
World Theatre; Playwright, Director & Choreographer; Production: Urban Cowboy; Design; Performance; Production: Big River; Playwright, Director & Choreographer; Production: Avenue Q; Design; Performance


24
Playwright & Director; Thoroughly Modern Millie; Performance; Performance; Playwright & Director; Women Producers; Design; Performance; Hairspray


23
Playwright, Director & Choreographer; Production: The Producers; Performance; Playwright, Director & Choreographer; Production: Mamma Mia!; Performance; Design


22
Playwright, Director & Choreographer; Production: Aida; Performance; Playwright, Director & Choreographer; Production: The Full Monty; Composer & Lyricist; Performance


21
Performance; Performance; Playwright, Director & Choreographer; Production: The Civil War; Critics; Playwright, Director & Choreographer; Production: Contact; Design; Performance 1999


20
Performance; Production: The Lion King; Playwright & Director; Production: Ragtime; Performance; Playwright, Director & Choreographer; Production: Side Man; Design


19
Performance; Playwright, Director & Choreographer; Production: Stanley; Unions & Guilds; Performance; Playwright & Director; Production: Side Show; Design


18
Performance;  Playwright & Director; Production: Master Class; Return to Broadway; Performance; Playwright, Director & Choreographer; Production: Fit to be Tied; Design


17
Performance; Playwright & Director; Production: Love! Valour! Compassion!; Regional Theatre: Goodspeed Opera House; Performance; Playwright, Director & Choreographer; Production: Moon Over Buffalo; Design Awards


16
Performance; New Play Development; Playwright, Director & Choreographer; Production: Beauty & the Beast; Performance; Playwright & Director; Production: Damn Yankees; Design


15
Production: Anna Christie; Performance; Playwright & Director; Production: Fool Moon; Regional Theatre/New Play Development; Performance; Playwright & Director; Production: Kiss of the Spider Woman; Design


14
Performance; Playwright & Director; Production: Crazy for You; Performance; Playwright & Director; Production: Jelly’s Last Jam; Unions & Guilds; Design


13
Performance; Performance; Playwright, Director & Choreographer; Production: Will Rogers Follies; Design


12
Performance; Producing; Production: Gypsy & Cat on a Hot Tin Roof; Performance; Playwright, Director & Choreographer; Production: A Few Good Men; Design Aw


11
Performance; Playwright and Director; Production: The Heidi Chronicles; London; Performance; Playwright, Director & Choreographer; Production: Orpheus Descending; Design Awards


10
Performance; Playwright & Director; Production: M. Butterfly; Performance; Playwright, Director & Choreographer; Production: Spoils of War; Design Awards


9
Performance; Playwright & Director; Production: Sweet Sue; Performance; Playwright & Director; Production: Burn This; Design


8
Performance; Playwright & Director; Production: Precious Sons; Performance; Playwright & Director; Production: House of Blue Leaves


7
Performance; Playwright, Director & Choreographer; Production: Grind; Performance; Playwright & Director; Big River; Design


6
Playwright, Director & Choreographer; Production: Dancing in the End Zone; Performance; Performance; Playwright, Director & Choreographer; Production: Hurly Burly; Design Awards


5
Performance; Playscript; Production: Angel’s Fall; Performance; Production: La Cage Aux Folles; Design


4
Performance; Playscript; Production: Producing Now & Then; Performance; Design; Production: Nine


3
Performance; Playscript; Production: Fifth of July; Design; Performance; Production: The Shubert Organization


2
Performance; Playscript; Production; Production: Barnum; Playscript; Performance; Design


1
Performance; Playscript; Production: The Elephant Man


Notable guests[edit]

Actors/Actresses

Nathan Lane, Cherry Jones, Matthew Broderick, Lea Salonga, Phylicia Rashad, Natasha Richardson, Jessica Lange, Brian Stokes Mitchell, Jennifer Ehle, Adam Pascal


Producers

Emanuel Azenberg, Jeffrey Seller, Harold Prince


Playwrights

Edward Albee, Tony Kushner, David Henry Hwang


Composers/Lyricists

Mary Rodgers, David Yazbek


Directors/Choreographers

David Esbjornson, Julie Taymor, Moises Kaufman


Lighting/Sound/Set/Costume Designers

Lighting: Beverly Emmons, Jules Fisher, Natasha Katz, Howell Binkley
Sound: David Meschter, Abe Jacob
Scenic: David Rockwell, Eugene Lee
Costume: Mary Peterson, Ann Roth



Awards and recognition[7][edit]

2017 - Daytime Emmy: Outstanding Special Class Series (nomination)[8]
2017 - Telly Award: Documentary (win - bronze telly)
2017 - Brooklyn Webfest (nomination)[9]
2016 - Telly Award: Documentary (win - silver telly)[10]
2016 - Brooklyn Webfest (win)
2016 - Webby Award: Online Film & Video: Documentary, Series (nomination)[11]
2015 - W3 Awards: Online Video - Documentary (win - silver award)

Related content[edit]
In 2006, a book series highlighting Working in the Theatre was published by Bloomsbury publishing, and edited by Robert Emmet Long.[12] The series included three books, each highlighting WIT guests' insight to the theatre industry.

Acting

Foreword by Kate Burton
Featuring: Brian Dennehy, Matthew Broderick, Nathan Lane, Blythe Danner, Joel Grey, Anne Heche, Dana Ivey, Swoosie Kurtz, Jessica Lange, Brian Stokes Mitchell, Cherry Jones, Tonya Pinkins, Phylicia Rashad, Vanessa Redgrave, Michael Crawford, Mercedes Ruehl, Patrick Stewart, Richard Thomas, Irene Worth, Natasha Richardson, and more


Producing and the Theatre Business

Foreword by Elizabeth Ireland McCann
Featuring: Daryl Roth, David Stone, Todd Haimes, Fran Weissler, Mel Brooks, Richard Frankel, Margo Lion, Kevin McCollum, André Bishop, Neil Pepe, Thomas Schumacher, Emanuel Azenberg, Thomas Viertel, Michael David, Susan Gallin, Jeffrey Seller, Barry Grove, Judy Craymer, Robyn Goodman, Harold Prince, and more


Writing

Foreword by Paula Vogel
Featuring: Edward Albee, Arthur Kopit, Lisa Kron, Christopher Durang, Marsha Norman, Brian Clark, Terrence McNally, Harvey Fierstein, Juan Guare, August Wilson, Samm-Art Williams, Charles Strouse, Roberto Aguirre-Sacasa, Alfred Uhry, Peter Parnell, Arthur Miller, Robert Anderson, Tony Kushner, David Auburn, Charles Busch, David Henry Hwang, John Patrick Shanley, and more



References[edit]


^ Working in the Theatre, Jean Dalrymple, George White, Brendan Gill, retrieved 2017-10-24 
^ "America Theatre Wing". The American Theatre Wing. Retrieved 2017-10-24. 
^ "American Theatre Wing's 'Working in the Theatre' Seminars, a Trove of History, Available Free Online | Playbill". Playbill. Retrieved 2017-10-24. 
^ "American Theatre Wing Receives $60,000 in National Endowment for the Arts Grants | Playbill". Playbill. Retrieved 2017-10-24. 
^ "American Theatre Wing Receives $60,000 From National Endowment for the Arts". TheaterMania.com. Retrieved 2017-10-24. 
^ Desk, BWW News. "NEA Supports American Theatre Wing's SpringboardNYC Program and Docuseries". BroadwayWorld.com. Retrieved 2017-10-24. 
^ Working in the Theatre, retrieved 2017-10-24 
^ "Daytime Emmy Nominations: 'Young and the Restless' Tops List; THR Scores Nom". The Hollywood Reporter. Retrieved 2017-10-24. 
^ "2017 Nominees & Winners - Brooklyn Web Fest". Brooklyn Web Fest. Retrieved 2017-10-24. 
^ "News & Events: Telly award". The American Theatre Wing. Retrieved 2017-10-24. 
^ "Tony Awards and Wing's Working in the Theatre Series Nominated for Webby Awards | Playbill". Playbill. Retrieved 2017-10-24. 
^ Bloomsbury.com. "Bloomsbury - Working in the Theatre Seminars". www.bloomsbury.com. Retrieved 2017-10-24. 






 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Working_in_the_Theatre_(series)&oldid=809026177"					
Categories: 1976 American television series debutsPublic television in the United StatesAmerican documentary television series1970s American television series1980s American television series1990s American television series2000s American television series2010s American television seriesTheatre in the United States 
