WTVY-TV Tower - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search








This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages)







The topic of this article may not meet Wikipedia's general notability guideline. Please help to establish notability by citing reliable secondary sources that are independent of the topic and provide significant coverage of it beyond its mere trivial mention. If notability cannot be established, the article is likely to be merged, redirected, or deleted.
Find sources: "WTVY-TV Tower" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (February 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)









This article does not cite any sources. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (February 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)





(Learn how and when to remove this template message)



The WTVY-TV Tower is a 1,901 FT AGL(579m) 2,035 FT AMSL structure located in Bethlehem, Florida. Erected in 1978 by WTVY channel 4 (CBS) in Dothan, Alabama, it is the tallest structure in the state of Florida. WTVY previously utilized a 1,209 FT tower located 5 miles east of Dothan in the Webb community. The old tower is still home to WTVY-FM. The new tower enables WTVY-TV to broadcast an omnidirectional signal for 80 miles which covers most of the Florida panhandle, south Alabama, and southwest Georgia. In 1988, WDJR-FM located their antenna at the 1,500 FT mark but had to relocate due to weight issues caused by the DTV transition and an extra antenna being needed by WTVY. WDJR built a 1,000 FT tower beside WTVY in 2006. In 2013, WRGX, the new NBC affiliate and sister station to WTVY began broadcasting from the tower at the 1,500 FT mark.





This article about a building or structure in Florida is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.


v
t
e









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=WTVY-TV_Tower&oldid=780302227"					
Categories: Towers in FloridaRadio masts and towers in the United StatesFlorida building and structure stubsHidden categories: Articles with topics of unclear notability from February 2015All articles with topics of unclear notabilityArticles lacking sources from February 2015All articles lacking sourcesFlorida articles missing geocoordinate dataAll articles needing coordinatesAll stub articles 
