Out-of-market sports package - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search







This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (February 2011) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)



In North America, an out-of-market sports package is a form of subscription television that broadcasts sporting events to areas where the events are unable to be seen by viewers on other broadcast and cable television networks due to the games not being broadcast in their local market.
Many leagues with major television contracts establish elaborate rules regarding which games are broadcast in different regions (with local teams usually getting preference). For viewers who prefer to see a game other than the one being locally broadcast in their designated market area, the out-of market package provides additional options.



Contents


1 Rationale for sports packages
2 Packages

2.1 Cable and satellite
2.2 Internet


3 See also
4 References



Rationale for sports packages[edit]






This section possibly contains original research. Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. (August 2009) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)



While such a thing may not appear necessary to the average sports fan who lives in the market of their team, many circumstances may be in place that generate the desire to view teams out of market. Some include:

Fans moving from the market of their favorite team – while that team could be viewed nationally on broadcast or cable television, or when the team plays the local sports franchise, those opportunities are few and far between;
Simply being a fan of an out of market team;[1]
Better competition – such as in the case of college football and basketball. For example, the option to watch a few of the most competitive or most interesting national games each week, in addition to one's home team's games. Except for the Southeastern Conference, for example, no conference is assured of a national game of the week at the same time slot every week;
Additional opportunities to watch one sport – such as when a home team may not have a game to play, or creating one's own doubleheader; watching an early game, then a late game;
Rivalries – having the desire to watch a rival team's games, or games of teams in the same athletic conference or division as one's favorite teams, which may not be regularly available in one's market;
Living in an area without an in-market team at the highest level in a sport – this usually means availability only of nationally televised games. Though these will often show a regional game, it may be the "most interesting" regional game, resulting in many missed games even when following the geographically closest team. Leagues will often designate "secondary markets" to prevent this from happening;
Involvement in a fantasy sports league – a sports fan who is "managing" a fantasy team may have the desire to watch the performance of players in several games that are being played simultaneously and thus has the ability to switch back and forth between games.
Blackouts – most major sports leagues have a blackout policy that prevents viewers of a particular television channel (usually a regional sports network) from seeing games on that channel outside of a certain geographic area (specifically to direct out of town viewers to the package).[2]

Packages[edit]
Cable and satellite[edit]

MLB Extra Innings - Available to DirecTV and most digital cable providers.
MLS Direct Kick - Available to DirecTV, Dish Network and most digital cable providers.
NBA League Pass - Available to DirecTV, Dish Network and most digital cable providers.
NFL Sunday Ticket - Exclusive to DirecTV*
NHL Center Ice - Available to DirecTV, Dish Network and most digital cable providers.
ESPN College Extra - Available to DirecTV and most digital cable providers.

* NFL Sunday Ticket is exclusive to DirecTV in the United States, but in other countries (most notably Canada) it is available more broadly, on several cable providers.
Internet[edit]
With the exception of ESPN3, Internet sports packages are primarily marketed directly to consumers and not through cable or satellite providers. Current Internet television and radio subscription or pay-per-view services include:

MLB.tv
MLB.com Gameday Audio
MiLB.tv
MLS Live
NFL Audio Pass (NFL, radio)
NHL.tv (United States), Rogers NHL GameCentre LIVE (Canada, marketed and distributed by Rogers Communications through the 2025-26 NHL season)
NBA League Pass Broadband
UFC Fight Pass
WWE Network
CFL Broadband (TV)
WatchESPN (a TV Everywhere service offering streaming of ESPN, ESPN2, and the web-exclusive service ESPN3)

Major League Baseball and the National Football League are the only professional sports leagues to black out local affiliates' internet radio feeds. Ironically, while the NFL charges money for radio feeds, it sells the Internet television rights to other networks that make those games available online for free, the opposite model of the other U.S cities major sports leagues.
See also[edit]

Regional sports network

References[edit]



^ Dewitt, Burton (2009-01-10). "The Trouble with Being An Out of Market Sports Fan". Rice Standard. Rice University. Retrieved 2011-02-14. 
^ "Sports Blackout Rules [PDF 183 KB] - US Government Publishing Office" (PDF). 









v
t
e


Sports television in the United States



Broadcast
divisions




English



CBS Sports
ESPN on ABC
Fox Sports
NBC Sports
Stadium
Turner Sports





Spanish



Azteca Deportes
Telemundo Deportes (Telemundo/Universo)
Univision Deportes








National
channels




English



beIN Sports
CBS Sports Network
ESPN

ESPN2


FS1

FS2


NBCSN

Olympic Channel







Spanish



beIN Sports en Español
ESPN Deportes
Fox Deportes
Univision Deportes Network








Specialty
channels




College



Big Ten Network
ESPNU
Fox College Sports
Pac-12 Network
SEC Network





Single sport



Cricket TicketO
ESPN College Extra
ESPN Goal Line & Bases LoadedP
Fox Soccer PlusP
GOL TV
Golf Channel
In DemandP
MAVTV
MLB Network
MLB Extra InningsO
MLB Strike ZoneP
MLS Direct KickO
NBA League PassO
NBA TV
NFL Network
NFL RedZoneP
NFL Sunday TicketO
NHL Network
NHL Center IceO
Tennis Channel
TVG

TVG2


Willow
Ride TV





Outdoors



The Cowboy Channel
Frost Great Outdoors
Outdoor Channel

Sportsman Channel
World Fishing Network


Pursuit Channel





Other



Eleven Sports Network
ESPN Classic
ESPNews
ESPN PPVP








Syndicators



ACC Network (Raycom Sports)
ESPN Events





Broadband



Fox Sports Go
Global Wrestling Network
MLB.tv
UFC Fight Pass
WatchESPN (ESPN3; ACC Network Extra)
WWE Network
WWNLive





Video on demand



The Ski Channel
Surf Channel












v
t
e


Regional sports television networks in the United States



AT&T SportsNet



Pittsburgh
Rocky Mountain
Southwest
Root Sports Northwest (part-ownership)





Fox Sports Networks



Arizona
Detroit
Florida / Sun
Midwest

Indiana
Kansas City


North
Ohio / SportsTime Ohio
Southeast / South

Carolinas
Tennessee


Southwest

Oklahoma
New Orleans


West / Prime Ticket

San Diego


Wisconsin
YES Network





NBC Sports Regional Networks
(Comcast)



Bay Area
Boston
California
Chicago
Northwest

Oregon Sports Network


Washington
Philadelphia





Spectrum Sports
(Charter)



Florida
Kansas City
Los Angeles

SportsNet/Deportes
SportsNet LA


SportsNet New York (part ownership)
Ohio
Wisconsin





Independents



Altitude Sports
Buckeye Cable Sports
BYUtv Sports
Cox Sports TV
FiOS1
Longhorn Network
Mid-Atlantic Sports
Midco Sports
MSG Network

Plus
Western NY


NESN
SportsNet NY
SWX Right Now















v
t
e


Defunct television sports networks in the United States



National



America One
American Sports Classics
American Sports Network
Back9Network
Baseball Network
Big 12 Network
CNN SI
ESPN 3D
Football Network
Fox Soccer
Lorimar Sports Network
Mizlou
NASCAR Hot Pass
NewSport
One World Sports
ONTV
SEC TV
Speed
SportsChannel America
Sports Network
Universal Sports Network





Regional



4SD
Carolinas SE
Cox Sports
Empire
Hawkvision
MountainWest
PASS Sports
Prime
PRISM
Royals Sports
SportsChannel LA
Sportsvision
Sports Time
Victory





Out-of-market



ESPN Full Court
ESPN GamePlan
Mega March Madness












O. Out-of-market sports packages
P. Premium channel











 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Out-of-market_sports_package&oldid=767995332"					
Categories: Cable television in the United StatesSports television in the United StatesCable television in CanadaSports television in CanadaOut-of-market sports packagesHidden categories: Articles needing additional references from February 2011All articles needing additional referencesArticles that may contain original research from August 2009All articles that may contain original research 
