Fishing industry - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Global production of aquatic organisms in million tonnes, since 1950, as reported by the FAO [1]



↑ Total production





↑ Wild fish capture





↑ Aquaculture harvest[1]




The fishing industry includes any industry or activity concerned with taking, culturing, processing, preserving, storing, transporting, marketing or selling fish or fish products. It is defined by the Food and Agriculture Organization as including recreational, subsistence and commercial fishing, and the harvesting, processing, and marketing sectors.[2] The commercial activity is aimed at the delivery of fish and other seafood products for human consumption or as input factors in other industrial processes. Directly or indirectly, the livelihood of over 500 million people in developing countries depends on fisheries and aquaculture.[3]



Contents


1 Sectors
2 Commercial sector

2.1 World production
2.2 Commercial fishing
2.3 Fish farming
2.4 Fish processing
2.5 Fish products
2.6 Fish marketing


3 Traditional sector
4 Recreational sector
5 International disputes

5.1 Disputes in the Americas
5.2 Disputes in Europe
5.3 Disputes in Asia


6 See also
7 References
8 External links



Sectors[edit]









wild



 marine 



pelagic



 predator 





tuna 








billfish 








shark 












forage





herring 








sardine








anchovy








menhaden


















 demersal 





cod 








flatfish 




















freshwater












 farmed 





carp 








salmon 








tilapia






















Commercially important finfish fisheries







Modern Spanish tuna purse seiner in the Seychelles Islands






Double-rigged shrimp trawler hauling in the nets






Using a special tuna knife at Tsukiji fish market in Tokyo






Sea urchin roe






Fresh seafood laid out on one of several floating barge vendors


There are three principal industry sectors:[4]

The commercial sector: comprises enterprises and individuals associated with wild-catch or aquaculture resources and the various transformations of those resources into products for sale. It is also referred to as the "seafood industry", although non-food items such as pearls are included among its products.
The traditional sector: comprises enterprises and individuals associated with fisheries resources from which aboriginal people derive products in accordance with their traditions.
The recreational sector: comprises enterprises and individuals associated for the purpose of recreation, sport or sustenance with fisheries resources from which products are derived that are not for sale.

Commercial sector[edit]
The commercial sector of the fishing industry comprises the following chain:

Commercial fishing and fish farming which produce the fish
Fish processing which produce the fish products
Marketing of the fish products

World production[edit]
Main articles: World fish production and Fishing industry by country
Fish are harvested by commercial fishing and aquaculture.
According to the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the world harvest in 2005 consisted of 93.3 million tonnes captured by commercial fishing in wild fisheries, plus 48.1 million tonnes produced by fish farms. In addition, 1.3 million tons of aquatic plants (seaweed etc.) were captured in wild fisheries and 14.8 million tons were produced by aquaculture.[5] The number of individual fish caught in the wild has been estimated at 0.97-2.7 trillion per year (not counting fish farms or marine invertebrates).[6]
Following is a table of the 2011 world fishing industry harvest in tonnes by capture and by aquaculture.[5]



Capture (ton)
Aquaculture (ton)
Total (ton)


Total
94,574,113
83,729,313
178,303,426


Aquatic plant
1,085,143
20,975,361
22,060,504


Aquatic animal
93,488,970
62,753,952
156,202,922


Commercial fishing[edit]
Main article: Commercial fishing
The top producing countries were, in order, the People's Republic of China (excluding Hong Kong and Taiwan), Peru, Japan, the United States, Chile, Indonesia, Russia, India, Thailand, Norway and Iceland. Those countries accounted for more than half of the world's production; China alone accounted for a third of the world's production.
Fish farming[edit]
Main articles: Aquaculture, Mariculture, and Fish farm
Aquaculture is the cultivation of aquatic organisms. Unlike fishing, aquaculture, also known as aquafarming, is the cultivation of aquatic populations under controlled conditions.[7] Mariculture refers to aquaculture practiced in marine environments. Particular kinds of aquaculture include algaculture (the production of kelp/seaweed and other algae); fish farming; shrimp farming, shellfish farming, and the growing of cultured pearls.
Fish farming involves raising fish commercially in tanks or enclosed pools, usually for food. Fish species raised by fish farms include carp, salmon, tilapia, catfish and cod. Increasing demands on wild fisheries by commercial fishing operations have caused widespread overfishing. Fish farming offers an alternative solution to the increasing market demand for fish and fish protein.
Fish processing[edit]
Main article: Fish processing
Fish processing is the processing of fish delivered by commercial fisheries and fish farms. The larger fish processing companies have their own fishing fleets and independent fisheries. The products of the industry are usually sold wholesale to grocery chains or to intermediaries.
Fish processing can be subdivided into two categories: fish handling (the initial processing of raw fish) and fish products manufacturing. Aspects of fish processing occur on fishing vessels, fish processing vessels, and at fish processing plants.
Another natural subdivision is into primary processing involved in the filleting and freezing of fresh fish for onward distribution to fresh fish retail and catering outlets, and the secondary processing that produces chilled, frozen and canned products for the retail and catering trades.[8]
Fish products[edit]
Main article: Fish products
Fisheries are estimated to currently provide 16% of the world population's protein. The flesh of many fish are primarily valued as a source of food; there are many edible species of fish. Other marine life taken as food includes shellfish, crustaceans, sea cucumber, jellyfish and roe.
Fish and other marine life can also be used for many other uses: pearls and mother-of-pearl, sharkskin and rayskin. Sea horses, star fish, sea urchins and sea cucumber are used in traditional Chinese medicine. Tyrian purple is a pigment made from marine snails, sepia is a pigment made from the inky secretions of cuttlefish. Fish glue has long been valued for its use in all manner of products. Isinglass is used for the clarification of wine and beer. Fish emulsion is a fertilizer emulsion that is produced from the fluid remains of fish processed for fish oil and fish meal.
In the industry the term seafood products is often used instead of fish products.
Fish marketing[edit]
Main article: Fish marketing
Fish markets are marketplace used for the trade in and sale of fish and other seafood. They can be dedicated to wholesale trade between fishermen and fish merchants, or to the sale of seafood to individual consumers, or to both. Retail fish markets, a type of wet market, often sell street food as well.
Most shrimp are sold frozen and are marketed in different categories.[9] The live food fish trade is a global system that links fishing communities with markets.
Traditional sector[edit]
Main article: Artisan fishing
The traditional fishing industry, or artisan fishing, are terms used to describe small scale commercial or subsistence fishing practises, particularly using traditional techniques such as rod and tackle, arrows and harpoons, throw nets and drag nets, etc. It does not usually cover the concept of fishing for sport, and might be used when talking about the pressures between large scale modern commercial fishing practises and traditional methods, or when aid programs are targeted specifically at fishing at or near subsistence levels.
Recreational sector[edit]
See also: Recreational fishing
The recreational fishing industry consists of enterprises such as the manufacture and retailing of fishing tackle and apparel, the payment of license fees to regulatory authorities, fishing books and magazines, the design and building of recreational fishing boats, and the provision of accommodation, fishing boats for charter, and guided fishing adventures.







Lift nets in Cà Mau, Vietnam









Fly fishing in a river




International disputes[edit]
The ocean covers 71% of the earth's surface and 80% of the value of exploited marine resources are attributed to the fishing industry. The fishing industry has provoked various international disputes as wild fish capture rose to a peak about the turn of the century, and has since started a gradual decline.[10] Iceland, Japan, and Portugal are the greatest consumers of seafood per capita in the world.
Disputes in the Americas[edit]
Chile and Peru are countries with high fish consumption, and therefore had troubles regarding fish industry. In 1947, Chile and Peru first adopted the 200 nautical miles of Exclusive Economic Zone for their shore, and in 1982, UN formally adopted this term. In the 2000s, Chile and Peru suffered serious fish crisis because of excessive fishing and lack of proper regulations, and now political power play in the area is rekindled.[11] From the late 1950s, offshore bottom trawlers began exploiting the deeper part, leading to a large catch increase and a strong decline in the underlying biomass. The stock collapsed to extremely low levels in the early 1990s and this is a well-known example of non-excludable, non-rivalrous public good in economics, causing free-rider problems.
Disputes in Europe[edit]
Iceland is one of the largest consumers in the world and in 1972, a dispute occurred between UK and Iceland because of Iceland’s announcement of Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) to reduce overfishing. This dispute is called the Cod War, direct confrontations between Icelandic patrol vessels and British warships. Nowadays in Europe in general, countries are searching for a way to recover fishing industry. Overfishing of EU fisheries is costing 3.2 billion euros a year and 100,000 jobs according to a report. So Europe is constantly looking for some collective actions to prevent overfishing.[12]
Disputes in Asia[edit]
Japan, China and Korea are some of the greatest consumers of fish, and have some disputes over Exclusive Economic Zone. In 2011, due to a serious earthquake, the nuclear power facility in Fukushima was damaged. Ever since, huge amount of contaminated water leaked and is entering the oceans. Tokyo Electric Power Company (Tepco) admitted that around 300 tonnes of highly radioactive water had leaked from a storage tank on the site. In the Kuroshio Current, the sea near Fukushima, about 11 countries catch fish. Not only the surrounding countries such as Japan, Korea and China, but also the countries like Ukraine, Spain and Russia have boats in the Kuroshio Current. In September 2013, South Korea banned all fish imports from eight Japanese prefectures, concerning radioactive water leak from the Fukushima nuclear plant.[12]
See also[edit]

List of fishing villages

References[edit]


^ a b Based on data sourced from the FishStat database Archived November 7, 2012, at the Wayback Machine.
^ FAO Fisheries Section: Glossary: Fishing industry. Retrieved 28 May 2008.
^ Fisheries and Aquaculture in our Changing Climate Policy brief of the FAO for the UNFCCC COP-15 in Copenhagen, December 2009.
^ The wording of the following definitions of the fishing industry are based on those used by the Australian government Archived 2009-06-14 at the Wayback Machine.
^ a b "FAO Fisheries & Aquaculture - Home". Retrieved 30 January 2016. 
^ A Mood and P Brooke (July 2010). Estimating the Number of Fish Caught in Global Fishing Each Year. FishCount.org.uk.
^ "Answers - The Most Trusted Place for Answering Life's Questions". Answers.com. Retrieved 30 January 2016. 
^ Royal Society of Edinburgh (2004) Inquiry into the future of the Scottish fishing industry. 128 pp.
^ Shang, Yung C.; Leung, Pingsun; Ling, Bith-Hong (1998). "Comparative economics of shrimp farming in Asia". Aquaculture. 164: 183–200. doi:10.1016/s0044-8486(98)00186-0. 
^ Millennium Ecosystem Assessment
^ "In Mackerel's Plunder, Hints of Epic Fish Collapse". International Herald Tribune. 25 January 2012. Retrieved 30 January 2016 – via The New York Times. 
^ a b "Overfishing 'costs EU £2.7bn each year'". BBC News. Retrieved 30 January 2016. 


External links[edit]

FAO Fisheries Information
World Fishing Today, news from fishing industry
Fish database (FishBase)
American Fisheries Society
NOAA Fisheries Service
One Fish
The Sunken Billions: The Economic Justification for Fisheries Reform





Links to related articles











v
t
e


Principal commercial fishery species groups



Wild




Large pelagic fish



Mackerel
Salmon
Saury
Shark
Swordfish
Tuna

albacore
bigeye
Atlantic bluefin
Pacific bluefin
southern bluefin
skipjack
yellowfin







Forage fish



Anchovy
Capelin
Herring
Ilish
Menhaden
Sardines
Shad
Sprat

european







Demersal fish



Catfish
Cod

Atlantic
Pacific
Alaska pollock


Flatfish

flounder
halibut
plaice
sole
turbot


Haddock
Mullet
Orange roughy
Pollock
Rockfish
Smelt-whitings
Toothfish





Freshwater fish



Carp
Sturgeon
Tilapia
Trout





Other wild fish



Eel
Whitebait
more...





Crustaceans



Crab
Krill
Lobster
Shrimp
more...





Molluscs



Abalone
Mussels
Octopus
Oysters
Scallops
Squid
more...





Echinoderms



Sea cucumbers
Sea urchin
more...















Farmed



Carp

bighead
common
crucian
grass
silver


Catfish
Freshwater prawns
Gilt-head bream
Mussels
Oysters
Salmon

Atlantic
salmon trout
coho
chinook


Scallops
Seaweed
Shrimp
Tilapia








Commercial fishing
World fish production
Commercial species
Fishing topics
Fisheries glossary














Wild fisheries







Fishing industry



Commercial fishing
List of harvested aquatic animals by weight
Trawling
Pair trawling
Midwater trawling
Bottom trawling
Seining
Gillnetting
Longlining
Trolling
Dredging
Fishing vessels
Power block








Fish processing



Fish factory
Factory ship
Fish preservation
Slurry ice
Dried fish
Filleted fish
Gibbing
Salmon cannery
Salted fish
Smoked fish
Kippers
more...





Fish products



Seafood
Fish as food
Caviar
Cod liver oil
Fish roe
Fish emulsion
Fish meal
Fish hydrolysate
Fish oil
Fish protein powder
Fish sauce
Gravlax
Hákarl
Lox
Lutefisk
Rakfisk
Shrimp paste
Surimi
Surströmming
Seafood list
Sea vegetables
Algae
Crustaceans
Molluscs
more...





Fish marketing



Live fish trade
Shrimp marketing
Chasse-marée
Fishmonger
Fishwife
Worshipful Company of Fishmongers





Fish markets



Billingsgate
Fulton
Maine Avenue
English Market
Scania
Tsukiji
more...





Area fisheries



World fish production
Fishing by country
Fishing banks
Other areas
















Aquaculture and farmed fisheries







Aquaculture



Aquaculture engineering
Aquaponics
Best practices
Copper alloys
Fisheries and aquaculture research institutes
Geothermal energy and aquaculture
Inland saline
Integrated multi-trophic
Mariculture
Antimicrobials
Offshore
Organic
Raceway
Recirculating





Fish farming



Broodstock
Catfish
Cobia
Fish diseases and parasites
Fish farming
Fish feed
Fish hatchery
Fish stocking
Spawning bed
Salmon
Tilapia
Tailwater
US hatcheries





Algaculture



Giant kelp
Microalgae
Microalgal bacterial flocs
Photobioreactor
Raceway pond
Seaweed





Other species



Brine shrimp
Coral
Freshwater prawns
Geoduck
Hirudiculture
Marine shrimp
Octopus
Oysters
Scallops
Sea cucumber
Sea sponges
Turtles





By country



Alaska
Australia
Canada
Chile
China
New Zealand
South Africa
South Korea


















v
t
e


Major industries






Heavy
Light








Activism
Advertising
Aerospace

Space


Aircraft

Aircraft tire


Agriculture

Flowers
Horticulture
Coffee


Audiovisual
Alcohol
Anime
Arms
Automotive
Bicycle
Biotechnology
Chemical
Computer
Construction

Dredging


Content
Creative
Cultural
Education
Electric power
Electronics

Semiconductor


Energy

Renewable energy


Engineering
Entertainment
Fashion
Film
Financial services

Insurance industry


Fishing
Food

Bushfood


Fur
Gaming

Online gambling


Health care
Hospitality
Information
Language
Leisure
Manufacturing
Meat industry

Meat packing


Mineral
Motorsport
Music
Naval stores
Payment card
Personal care
Petroleum

Oil shale


Pharmaceutical
Plastics
Poverty
Professional services
Pulp and paper
Radio
Real estate

Housing


Online service
Security
Sex
Shipbuilding
Software
Sport
Textile
Tobacco
Tourism
Video game
Water












v
t
e


Fisheries and fishing topic areas



Fisheries



Aquaculture
Diversity of fish
Fish diseases and parasites
Fish farming
Fisheries management
Fisheries science
Individual fishing quota
Sustainable fishery
Wild fisheries








Fishing



Artisanal fishing
Fisherman
Fishing vessel
History of fishing





Industry



List of harvested aquatic animals by weight
By country
Commercial fishing
Marketing
Markets
Processing
Products
Seafood





Recreation



Angling
Big-game fishing
Catch and release
Fishing tournaments
Fly fishing





Techniques



Fish trap
Fishfinder
Fishing net
Gathering seafood by hand
Handline fishing
Spearfishing
Trawling





Tackle



Artificial flies
Bait
Bite indicators
Hook
Line
Lures
Rod
Sinker





Locations



Fish ponds
Fishing banks
Fishing villages
Marine habitats








Glossary
Index
Outline
 Fishing portal
 Category














Authority control



NDL: 00571599










 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Fishing_industry&oldid=806577794"					
Categories: Fishing industryHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links 
