Peace - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

This article is about the idea of harmony and the absence of hostility. For other uses, see Peace (disambiguation).




2008. A "Kind Angel of Peace monument" in the city of Donetsk, Ukraine, by Russian artist Peter Stronsky.


Peace is a certain quality of existence which has been sought after, yet seldom found in a long enduring form, since time immemorial. In a behavioral sense, peace is generally understood to be a lack of conflict and freedom from fear of violence between heterogeneous social groups. Throughout history benevolent leaders have often exhibited a certain type of behavioral or political restraint, which in turn has often resulted in the establishment of regional peace or economic growth through various forms of agreements or peace treaties. Such behavioral restraint has often resulted in the de-escalation of conflicts, or in multilateral or bilateral peace talks. The avoidance of war or violent hostility is often the result of compromise, and is often initiated with thoughtful active listening and communication, which may tend to enable a greater genuine mutual understanding.
In a psychological sense, peace is perhaps less well defined but at least of an equal value to, or of a greater value than, "behavioral peace." Peaceful behavior has often been found to have been the result of a certain type of a "peaceful inner disposition" on the part of some. Some have expressed the belief that peace is a certain quality of inner tranquility which does not depend upon the uncertainties of daily life for its existence.[1] The acquisition of such a "peaceful internal disposition" would seem to possibly be a valuable asset, capable of assisting in the resolution of otherwise seemingly irreconcilable competing interests.
Such individuals are sometimes known to de-escalate conflicts or to improve emotions through compliments or generosity. Small gestures of generosity that are reciprocated may be followed with even more gestures. Benevolent generosity can eventually become a pattern that may become a lasting basis for improved relations. Peace talks often start without preconditions and preconceived notions because they are more than just negotiating opportunities. They place attention on peace itself, over and above what may have been previously perceived as the competing needs or interests of separate individuals or parties, in a way which can sometimes derive unexpected, yet beneficial results. Peace talks are sometimes also uniquely important learning opportunities for the individuals or parties involved.



Contents


1 Etymology
2 Religious beliefs and peace

2.1 Christianity
2.2 Islam
2.3 Buddhism
2.4 Hinduism


3 Inner peace, meditation and prayerfulness
4 Satyagraha
5 Justice and injustice
6 Long periods of neutrality and peace
7 Movements and activism

7.1 Pacifism
7.2 Organizations

7.2.1 United Nations
7.2.2 League of Nations
7.2.3 Olympic Games
7.2.4 Nobel Peace Prize
7.2.5 Rhodes Scholarships and other fellowships
7.2.6 International Peace Belt
7.2.7 Gandhi Peace Prize
7.2.8 Paul Bartlett Ré Peace Prize
7.2.9 Student Peace Prize
7.2.10 Culture of Peace News Network
7.2.11 The Sydney Peace Prize
7.2.12 Other




8 Monuments
9 Theories

9.1 Game theory
9.2 Balance of power theories
9.3 Democratic peace theory
9.4 Peace, free trade, interdependence, and globalization
9.5 Peace, socialism, capitalism, and managed capitalism
9.6 Theory of 'active peace'
9.7 Peace, international organization, and international law
9.8 Trans-national solidarity
9.9 Many peaces
9.10 Trans-rational peaces
9.11 Peace without weapons


10 Peace and conflict studies
11 Measuring and ranking peace
12 See also
13 References
14 Notes
15 External links



Etymology[edit]
The term-'peace' originates most recently from the Anglo-French pes, and the Old French pais, meaning "peace, reconciliation, silence, agreement" (11th century).[2] But, Pes itself comes from the Latin pax, meaning "peace, compact, agreement, treaty of peace, tranquility, absence of hostility, harmony." The English word came into use in various personal greetings from c.1300 as a translation of the Hebrew word shalom, which, according to Jewish theology, comes from a Hebrew verb meaning 'to be complete, whole'.[3] Although 'peace' is the usual translation, however, it is an incomplete one, because 'shalom,' which is also cognate with the Arabic salaam, has multiple other meanings in addition to peace, including justice, good health, safety, well-being, prosperity, equity, security, good fortune, and friendliness, as well as simply the greetings, "hello" and "goodbye".[citation needed] At a personal level, peaceful behaviors are kind, considerate, respectful, just, and tolerant of others' beliefs and behaviors — tending to manifest goodwill.
This latter understanding of peace can also pertain to an individual's introspective sense or concept of her/himself, as in being "at peace" in one's own mind, as found in European references from c.1200. The early English term is also used in the sense of "quiet", reflecting calm, serene, and meditative approaches to family or group relationships that avoid quarreling and seek tranquility — an absence of disturbance or agitation.
In many languages, the word for peace is also used as a greeting or a farewell, for example the Hawaiian word aloha, as well as the Arabic word salaam. In English the word peace is occasionally used as a farewell, especially for the dead, as in the phrase rest in peace.
Wolfgang Dietrich in his research project which led to the book The Palgrave International Handbook of Peace Studies (2011) maps the different meanings of peace in different languages and from different regions across the world. Later, in his Interpretations of Peace in History and Culture (2012), he groups the different meanings of peace into five peace families: Energetic/Harmony, Moral/Justice, Modern/Security, Postmodern/Truth, and Transrational, a synthesis of the positive sides of the four previous families and the society.
Religious beliefs and peace [edit]




Statue of Eirene, goddess of peace in ancient Greek religion, with her son Pluto.


Religious beliefs often seek to identify and address the basic problems of human life, including the conflicts between, among, and within persons and societies. In ancient Greek-speaking areas the virtue of peace was personified as the godddess Eirene, and in Latin-speaking areas as the goddess Pax. Her image was typically represented by ancient sculptors as that of a full-grown woman, usually with a horn of plenty and scepter and sometimes with a torch or olive leaves.
Christianity[edit]
Christians, who believe Jesus of Nazareth to be the Jewish Messiah called Christ (meaning Anointed One),[4] interpret Isaiah 9:6 as a messianic prophecy of Jesus in which he is called the "Prince of Peace."[5] In the Gospel of Luke, Zechariah celebrates his son John: And you, child, will be called prophet of the Most High, for you will go before the Lord to prepare his ways, to give his people knowledge of salvation through the forgiveness of their sins, because of the tender mercy of our God by which the daybreak from on high will visit us to shine on those who sit in darkness and death's shadow, to guide our feet into the path of peace.
Numerous pontifical documents on the Holy Rosary document a continuity of views of the Popes to have confidence in the Holy Rosary as a means to foster peace. Subsequently, to the Encyclical Mense maio,1965, in which he urged the practice of the Holy Rosary, "the prayer so dear to the Virgin and so much recommended by the Supreme Pontiffs," and as reaffirmed in the encyclical Christi Matri, 1966, to implore peace, Pope Paul VI stated in the apostolic Recurrens mensis, October 1969, that the Rosary is a prayer that favors the great gift of peace.
Islam[edit]
Islam derived from the root word salam which literally means peace. Muslims are called followers of Islam. Quran clearly stated "Those who have believed and whose hearts are assured by the remembrance of Allah. Unquestionably, by the remembrance of Allah, hearts are assured" and stated "O you who have believed, when you are told, "Space yourselves" in assemblies, then make space; Allah will make space for you. And when you are told, "Arise," then arise; Allah will raise those who have believed among you and those who were given knowledge, by degrees. And Allah is Acquainted with what you do." [6][7]
Buddhism[edit]
Buddhists believe that peace can be attained once all suffering ends. They regard all suffering as stemming from cravings (in the extreme, greed), aversions (fears), or delusions. To eliminate such suffering and achieve personal peace, followers in the path of the Buddha adhere to a set of teachings called the Four Noble Truths — a central tenet in Buddhist philosophy.
Hinduism[edit]
Hindu texts contain the following passages:

May there be peace in the heavens, peace in the atmosphere, peace on the earth. Let there be coolness in the water, healing in the herbs and peace radiating from the trees. Let there be harmony in the planets and in the stars, and perfection in eternal knowledge. May everything in the universe be at peace. Let peace pervade everywhere, at all times. May I experience that peace within my own heart.
— Yajur Veda 36.17)


Let us not concord with our own people, and concord with people who are strangers to us. Celestial Twins, create between us and the strangers a unity of hearts. May we unite in our minds, unite in our purposes, and not fight against the heavenly spirit within us. Let not the battle-cry rise amidst many slain, nor the arrows of the war-god fall with the break of day
— Yajur Veda 7.52


A superior being does not render evil for evil. This is a maxim one should observe... One should never harm the wicked or the good or even animals meriting death. A noble soul will exercise compassion even towards those who enjoy injuring others or cruel deeds... Who is without fault?
— Valmiki, Ramayana


The chariot that leads to victory is of another kind.

Valour and fortitude are its wheels;
Truthfulness and virtuous conduct are its banner;
Strength, discretion, self-restraint and benevolence are its four horses,
Harnessed with the cords of forgiveness, compassion and equanimity...
Whoever has this righteous chariot, has no enemy to conquer anywhere.
— Valmiki, Ramayana



Inner peace, meditation and prayerfulness[edit]
Main article: Inner peace




Buddhist monk during meditation near Phu Soidao Nationalpark.


Psychological or inner peace (i.e. peace of mind) refers to a state of being internally or spiritually at peace, with sufficient knowledge and understanding to keep oneself calm in the face of apparent discord or stress. Being internally "at peace" is considered by many to be a healthy mental state, or homeostasis and to be the opposite of feeling stressful, mentally anxious, or emotionally unstable. Within the meditative traditions, the psychological or inward achievement of "peace of mind" is often associated with bliss and happiness.
Peace of mind, serenity, and calmness are descriptions of a disposition free from the effects of stress. In some meditative traditions, inner peace is believed to be a state of consciousness or enlightenment that may be cultivated by various types of meditation, prayer, t'ai chi ch'uan (太极拳, tàijíquán), yoga, or other various types of mental or physical disciplines. Many such practices refer to this peace as an experience of knowing oneself. An emphasis on finding one's inner peace is often associated with traditions such as Buddhism, Hinduism, and some traditional Christian contemplative practices such as monasticism,[8] as well as with the New Age movement.
Satyagraha[edit]
Main article: Satyagraha
Satyagraha (Sanskrit: सत्याग्रह satyāgraha) is a philosophy and practice of nonviolent resistance developed by Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi. He deployed satyagraha techniques in campaigns for Indian independence and also during his earlier struggles in South Africa.
The word satyagraha itself was coined through a public contest that Gandhi sponsored through the newspaper he published in South Africa, 'Indian Opinion', when he realized that neither the common, contemporary Hindu language nor the English language contained a word which fully expressed his own meanings and intentions when he talked about his nonviolent approaches to conflict. According to Gandhi's autobiography, the contest winner was Maganlal Gandhi (presumably no relation), who submitted the entry 'sadagraha', which Gandhi then modified to 'satyagraha'. Etymologically, this Hindic word means 'truth-firmness', and is commonly translated as 'steadfastness in the truth' or 'truth-force'.




Martin Luther King, Jr., president of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, and Mathew Ahmann, executive director of the National Catholic Conference for Interrracial Justice, at a civil rights march on Washington, D.C.


Satyagraha theory also influenced Martin Luther King Jr. during the campaigns he led during the civil rights movement in the United States. The theory of satyagraha sees means and ends as inseparable. Therefore, it is contradictory to try to use violence to obtain peace. As Gandhi wrote: "They say, 'means are, after all, means'. I would say, 'means are, after all, everything'. As the means so the end..."[9] A contemporary quote sometimes attributed to Gandhi, but also to A. J. Muste, sums it up: 'There is no way to peace; peace is the way.'
Justice and injustice[edit]
Since classical times, it has been noted that peace has sometimes been achieved by the victor over the vanquished by the imposition of ruthless measures. In his book Agricola the Roman historian Tacitus includes eloquent and vicious polemics against the rapacity and greed of Rome. One, that Tacitus says is by the Caledonian chieftain Calgacus, ends Auferre trucidare rapere falsis nominibus imperium, atque ubi solitudinem faciunt, pacem appellant. (To ravage, to slaughter, to usurp under false titles, they call empire; and where they make a desert, they call it peace. — Oxford Revised Translation).
Discussion of peace is therefore at the same time a discussion on the form of such peace. Is it simple absence of mass organized killing (war) or does peace require a particular morality and justice? (just peace).[10] A peace must be seen at least in two forms:

A simple silence of arms, absence of war.
Absence of war accompanied by particular requirements for the mutual settlement of relations, which are characterized by terms such as justice, mutual respect, respect for law and good will.

More recently, advocates for radical reform in justice systems have called for a public policy adoption of non-punitive, non-violent Restorative Justice methods, and many of those studying the success of these methods, including a United Nations working group on Restorative Justice, have attempted to re-define justice in terms related to peace. From the late 2000s on, a Theory of Active Peace has been proposed[11] which conceptually integrates justice into a larger peace theory.
Long periods of neutrality and peace[edit]
See also: List of periods of regional peace
The longest continuing period of neutrality among currently existing states is observed in Switzerland, which has had an official policy of neutrality and general peace since 1815 (for 202 years as of 2017). This was made possible partly by the periods of relative peace in Europe and the world known as Pax Britannica (1815-1914), Pax Europaea/Pax Americana (since 1950s), and Pax Atomica (also since the 1950s).
Other examples of long periods of peace are:

the isolationistic Edo period (also known as Tokugawa shogunate) in Japan 1603 to 1868 (250 years)
Pax Khazarica in Khazar Khanate (south-east Turkey) about 700-950 AD (250 years)
Pax Romana in the Roman empire (for 190 or 206 years).

Movements and activism[edit]
Pacifism[edit]
Main article: Pacifism




A peace sign, which is widely associated with pacifism


Pacifism is the categorical opposition to the behaviors of war or violence as a means of settling disputes or of gaining advantage. Pacifism covers a spectrum of views ranging from the belief that international disputes can and should all be resolved via peaceful behaviors; to calls for the abolition of various organizations which tend to institutionalize agressive behaviors, such as the military, or arms manufacturers; to opposition to any organization of society that might rely in any way upon governmental force. Such groups which sometimes oppose the governmental use of force include anarchists and libertarians. Absolute pacifism opposes violent behavior under all circumstance, including defense of self and others.
Pacifism may be based on moral principles (a deontological view) or pragmatism (a consequentialist view). Principled pacifism holds that all forms of violent behavior are inappropriate responses to conflict, and are morally wrong. Pragmatic pacifism holds that the costs of war and inter-personal violence are so substantial that better ways of resolving disputes must be found. Pacifists in general reject theories of Just War. Pacifism tends to place its initial focus on the need for a "peaceful behavior" ahead of any focus on the need for a "peaceful inner disposition."
Organizations[edit]
United Nations[edit]
Main article: United Nations
The United Nations (UN) is an international organization whose stated aims are to facilitate cooperation in international law, international security, economic development, social progress, human rights, and achieving world peace. The UN was founded in 1945 after World War II to replace the League of Nations, to stop wars between countries, and to provide a platform for dialogue.
See also: List of United Nations peacekeeping missions




UN peacekeeping missions. Dark blue regions indicate current missions, while light blue regions represent former missions.


The UN, after approval by the Security Council, sends peacekeepers to regions where armed conflict has recently ceased or paused to enforce the terms of peace agreements and to discourage combatants from resuming hostilities. Since the UN does not maintain its own military, peacekeeping forces are voluntarily provided by member states of the UN. The forces, also called the "Blue Helmets", who enforce UN accords are awarded United Nations Medals, which are considered international decorations instead of military decorations. The peacekeeping force as a whole received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1988.
League of Nations[edit]
The principal forerunner of the United Nations was the League of Nations. It was created at the Paris Peace Conference of 1919, and emerged from the advocacy of Woodrow Wilson and other idealists during World War I. The Covenant of the League of Nations was included in the Treaty of Versailles in 1919, and the League was based in Geneva until its dissolution as a result of World War II and replacement by the United Nations. The high hopes widely held for the League in the 1920s, for example amongst members of the League of Nations Union, gave way to widespread disillusion in the 1930s as the League struggled to respond to challenges from Nazi Germany, Fascist Italy, and Japan.
One of the most important scholars of the League of Nations was Sir Alfred Zimmern. Like many of the other British enthusiasts for the League, such as Gilbert Murray and Florence Stawell - the so-called "Greece and peace" set - he came to this from the study of the classics.
The creation of the League of Nations, and the hope for informed public opinion on international issues (expressed for example by the Union for Democratic Control during World War I), also saw the creation after World War I of bodies dedicated to understanding international affairs, such as the Council on Foreign Relations in New York and the Royal Institute of International Affairs at Chatham House in London. At the same time, the academic study of international relations started to professionalize, with the creation of the first professorship of international politics, named for Woodrow Wilson, at Aberystwyth, Wales, in 1919.
Olympic Games[edit]
The late 19th century idealist advocacy of peace which led to the creation of the Nobel Peace Prize, the Rhodes Scholarships, the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, and ultimately the League of Nations, also saw the re-emergence of the ancient Olympic ideal. Led by Pierre de Coubertin, this culminated in the holding in 1896 of the first of the modern Olympic Games.
Nobel Peace Prize[edit]
Main article: Nobel Peace Prize




Henry Dunant was awarded the first-ever Nobel Peace Prize for his role in founding the International Red Cross.


The highest honour awarded to peace maker is the Nobel Prize in Peace, awarded since 1901 by the Norwegian Nobel Committee. It is awarded annually to internationally notable persons following the prize's creation in the will of Alfred Nobel. According to Nobel's will, the Peace Prize shall be awarded to the person who "...shall have done the most or the best work for fraternity between nations, for the abolition or reduction of standing armies and for the holding and promotion of peace congresses."[12]
Rhodes Scholarships and other fellowships[edit]
In creating the Rhodes Scholarships for outstanding students from the United States, Germany and much of the British Empire, Cecil Rhodes wrote in 1901 that 'the object is that an understanding between the three great powers will render war impossible and educational relations make the strongest tie'.[13] This peace purpose of the Rhodes Scholarships was very prominent in the first half of the 20th century, and became prominent again in recent years under Warden of the Rhodes House Donald Markwell,[14] a historian of thought about the causes of war and peace.[15] This vision greatly influenced Senator J. William Fulbright in the goal of the Fulbright fellowships to promote international understanding and peace, and has guided many other international fellowship programs,[16] including the Schwarzman Scholars to China created by Stephen A. Schwarzman in 2013.[17]
International Peace Belt[edit]
Main article: International Peace Belt
The International Peace Belt, created by artist Wendy Black Nasta, is a living symbol of the peaceful unity of all nations.
Gandhi Peace Prize[edit]
Main article: Gandhi Peace Prize




Mahatma Gandhi.


The International Gandhi Peace Prize, named after Mahatma Gandhi, is awarded annually by the Government of India. It is launched as a tribute to the ideals espoused by Gandhi in 1995 on the occasion of the 125th anniversary of his birth. This is an annual award given to individuals and institutions for their contributions towards social, economic and political transformation through non-violence and other Gandhian methods. The award carries Rs. 10 million in cash, convertible in any currency in the world, a plaque and a citation. It is open to all persons regardless of nationality, race, creed or sex.
Paul Bartlett Ré Peace Prize[edit]
Main article: Paul Bartlett Ré Peace Prize
The Paul Bartlett Ré Peace Prize, named after the artist Paul Ré, is awarded bi-annually by the University of New Mexico (UNM).
Student Peace Prize[edit]
Main article: Student Peace Prize
The Student Peace Prize is awarded biennially to a student or a student organization that has made a significant contribution to promoting peace and human rights.
Culture of Peace News Network[edit]
Main article: Culture of Peace News Network
The Culture of Peace News Network, otherwise known simply as CPNN, is a UN authorized interactive online news network, committed to supporting the global movement for a culture of peace.
The Sydney Peace Prize[edit]
Every year in the first week of November, the Sydney Peace Foundation presents the Sydney Peace Prize. The Sydney Peace Prize is awarded to an organization or an individual whose life and work has demonstrated significant contributions to:
The achievement of peace with justice locally, nationally or internationally
The promotion and attainment of human rights
The philosophy, language and practice of non violence
Other[edit]
See also: Peace museums
A peace museum is a museum that documents historical peace initiatives. Many peace museums also provide advocacy programs for nonviolent conflict resolution. This may include conflicts at the personal, regional or international level.
Smaller institutions:

Randolph Bourne Institute
The McGill Middle East Program of Civil Society and Peace Building
International Festival of Peace Poetry

Monuments[edit]
The following are monuments to peace:


Name
Location
Organization
Meaning
Image


Japanese Peace Bell
New York City, NY, USA
United Nations
World peace



Fountain of Time
Chicago, IL, USA
Chicago Park District
100 years of peace between the USA and UK



Fredensborg Palace
Fredensborg, Denmark
Frederick IV
The peace between Denmark–Norway and Sweden, after Great Northern War which was signed 3 July 1720 on the site of the unfinished palace.



International Peace Garden
North Dakota, Manitoba
non-profit organization
Peace between the US and Canada, World peace



Peace Arch
border between US and Canada, near Surrey, British Columbia.
non-profit organization
Built to honour the first 100 years of peace between Great Britain and the United States resulting from the signing of the Treaty of Ghent in 1814.



Statue of Europe
Brussels
European Commission
Unity in Peace in Europe



Waterton-Glacier International Peace Park
Alberta, Montana
non-profit organization
World Peace



The Peace Dome
Windyville, MO, USA
not-for-profit organization
Many minds working together toward a common ideal to create real and lasting transformation of consciousness on planet Earth. A place for people to come together to learn how to live peaceably.[18]


Shanti Stupa
Pokhara, Nepal
Nipponzan-Myōhōji-Daisanga
One of eighty peace pagodas in the World.


Theories[edit]
See also: Peace and conflict studies § Conceptions of peace
Many different theories of "peace" exist in the world of peace studies, which involves the study of de-escalation, conflict transformation, disarmament, and cessation of violence.[19] The definition of "peace" can vary with religion, culture, or subject of study.
One definition is that peace is a state of balance and understanding in yourself and between others, where respect is gained by the acceptance of differences, tolerance persists, conflicts are resolved through dialog, people's rights are respected and their voices are heard, and everyone is at their highest point of serenity without social tension.[citation needed]
Game theory[edit]
Main article: Peace war game
The Peace & War Game is an approach in game theory to understand the relationship between peace and conflicts.
The iterated game hypotheses was originally used by academic groups and computer simulations to study possible strategies of cooperation and aggression. [20]
As peace makers became richer over time, it became clear that making war had greater costs than initially anticipated. One of the well studied strategies that acquired wealth more rapidly was based on Genghis Khan, i.e. a constant aggressor making war continually to gain resources. This led, in contrast, to the development of what's known as the "provokable nice guy strategy", a peace-maker until attacked, improved upon merely to win by occasional forgiveness even when attacked.
There exists a strategy of multiple players who can continue to gain wealth cooperating with each other while bleeding a constantly aggressive player.[citation needed]
Balance of power theories[edit]
Main article: Balance of power (international relations)
The classical "realist" position is that the key to promoting order between states, and so of increasing the chances of peace, is the maintenance of a balance of power between states - a situation where no state is so dominant that it can "lay down the law to the rest". Exponents of this view have included Metternich, Bismarck, Hans Morgenthau, and Henry Kissinger. A related approach - more in the tradition of Hugo Grotius than Thomas Hobbes - was articulated by the so-called "English school of international relations theory" such as Martin Wight in his book Power Politics (1946, 1978) and Hedley Bull in The Anarchical Society (1977).
As the maintenance of a balance of power could in some circumstances require a willingness to go to war, some critics saw the idea of a balance of power as promoting war rather than promoting peace. This was a radical critique of those supporters of the Allied and Associated Powers who justified entry into World War I on the grounds that it was necessary to preserve the balance of power in Europe from a German bid for hegemony.
In the second half of the 20th century, and especially during the cold war, a particular form of balance of power - mutual nuclear deterrence - emerged as a widely held doctrine on the key to peace between the great powers. Critics argued that the development of nuclear stockpiles increased the chances of war rather than peace, and that the "nuclear umbrella" made it "safe" for smaller wars (e.g. the Vietnam war and the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia to end the Prague Spring), so making such wars more likely.
Democratic peace theory[edit]
Main article: Democratic peace theory
The democratic peace theory holds that democracies will never go to war with one another.
Peace, free trade, interdependence, and globalization[edit]
It was a central tenet of classical liberalism, for example among English liberal thinkers of the late 19th and early 20th century, that free trade promoted peace. For example, the Cambridge economist John Maynard Keynes (1883-1946) said that he was "brought up" on this idea and held it unquestioned until at least the 1920s.[21] During the economic globalization in the decades leading up to World War I, writers such as Norman Angell argued that the growth of economic interdependence between the great powers made war between them futile and therefore unlikely. He made this argument in 1914.
These ideas have again come to prominence among liberal internationalists during the globalization of the late 20th and early 21st century.[22] These ideas have seen capitalism as consistent with, even conducive to, peace.
Peace, socialism, capitalism, and managed capitalism[edit]
Socialist, communist, and left-wing liberal writers of the 19th and 20th centuries (e.g., Lenin, J.A. Hobson, John Strachey) argued that capitalism caused war (e.g. through promoting imperial or other economic rivalries that lead to international conflict). This led some to argue that international socialism was the key to peace.
However, in response to such writers in the 1930s who argued that capitalism caused war, the economist John Maynard Keynes (1883-1946) argued that managed capitalism could promote peace. This involved international coordination of fiscal/monetary policies, an international monetary system that did not pit the interests of countries against each other, and a high degree of freedom of trade. These ideas underlay Keynes's work during World War II that led to the creation of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank at Bretton Woods in 1944, and later of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (subsequently the World Trade Organization).[23]
Theory of 'active peace'[edit]
Borrowing from the teachings of Norwegian theorist Johan Galtung, one of the pioneers of the field of Peace Research, on 'Positive Peace',[24] and on the writings of Maine Quaker Gray Cox, a consortium of theorists, activists, and practitioners in the experimental John Woolman College initiative have arrived at a theory of "active peace". This theory posits in part that peace is part of a triad, which also includes justice and wholeness (or well-being), an interpretation consonant with scriptural scholarly interpretations of the meaning of the early Hebrew word shalom. Furthermore, the consortium have integrated Galtung's teaching of the meanings of the terms peacemaking, peacekeeping, and peacebuilding, to also fit into a triadic and interdependent formulation or structure. Vermont Quaker John V. Wilmerding posits five stages of growth applicable to individuals, communities, and societies, whereby one transcends first the 'surface' awareness that most people have of these kinds of issues, emerging successively into acquiescence, pacifism, passive resistance, active resistance, and finally into active peace, dedicating themselves to peacemaking, peacekeeping or peace building.[25]
Peace, international organization, and international law[edit]
One of the most influential theories of peace, especially since Woodrow Wilson led the creation of the League of Nations at the Paris Peace Conference of 1919, is that peace will be advanced if the intentional anarchy of states is replaced through the growth of international law promoted and enforced through international organizations such as the League of Nations, the United Nations, and other functional international organizations. One of the most important early exponents of this view was Sir Alfred Zimmern, for example in his 1936 book The League of Nations and the Rule of Law.[26]
Trans-national solidarity[edit]
Many "idealist" thinkers about international relations - e.g. in the traditions of Kant and Karl Marx - have argued that the key to peace is the growth of some form of solidarity between peoples (or classes of people) spanning the lines of cleavage between nations or states that lead to war.[27]
One version of this is the idea of promoting international understanding between nations through the international mobility of students - an idea most powerfully advanced by Cecil Rhodes in the creation of the Rhodes Scholarships, and his successors such as J. William Fulbright.[28]
Another theory is that peace can be developed among countries on the basis of active management of water resources.[29]
Many peaces[edit]
Following Wolfgang Dietrich, Wolfgang Sützl[30] and the Innsbruck School of Peace Studies, some peace thinkers have abandoned any single and all-encompassing definition of peace. Rather, they promote the idea of many peaces. They argue that since no singular, correct definition of peace can exist, peace should be perceived as a plurality. This post-modern understanding of peace(s) was based on the philosophy of Jean Francois Lyotard. It served as a fundament for the more recent concept of trans-rational peace(s) and elicitive conflict transformation.
Trans-rational peaces[edit]
In 2008 Wolfgang Dietrich enlarged his earlier approach of the many peaces to the so-called five families of peace interpretations: the energetic, moral, modern, post-modern and trans-rational approach.[31] Trans-rationality unites the rational and mechanistic understanding of modern peace in a relational and culture-based manner with spiritual narratives and energetic interpretations.[32] The systemic understanding of trans-rational peaces advocates a client-centred method of conflict transformation, the so-called elicitive approach.[33]
Peace without weapons[edit]
The theory of peace without weapons is as old as philosophy and human consciousness. This theory holds that weapons per se are a threat to peace, and a removal of all weapons is the way to everlasting peace.
Peace and conflict studies[edit]




Detail from Peace and Prosperity (1896), Elihu Vedder, Library of Congress Thomas Jefferson Building, Washington, D.C.


Main article: Peace and conflict studies
Peace and conflict studies is an academic field which identifies and analyses violent and nonviolent behaviours, as well as the structural mechanisms attending violent and non violent social conflicts. This is to better understand the processes leading to a more desirable human condition.[34] One variation, Peace studies (irenology), is an interdisciplinary effort aiming at the prevention, de-escalation, and solution of conflicts. This contrasts with war studies (polemology), directed at the efficient attainment of victory in conflicts. Disciplines involved may include political science, geography, economics, psychology, sociology, international relations, history, anthropology, religious studies, and gender studies, as well as a variety of other disciplines.
Measuring and ranking peace[edit]
Although peace is widely perceived as something intangible, various organizations have been making efforts to quantify and measure it. The Global Peace Index produced by the Institute for Economics and Peace is a known effort to evaluate peacefulness in countries based on 23 indicators of the absence of violence and absence of the fear of violence.[35]
The last edition of the Index ranks 163 countries on their internal and external levels of peace.[36] According to the 2017 Global Peace Index, Iceland is the most peaceful country in the world while Syria is the least peaceful one.[37] Fragile States Index (formerly known as the Failed States Index) created by the Fund for Peace focuses on risk for instability or violence in 178 nations. This index measures how fragile a state is by 12 indicators and subindicators that evaluate aspects of politics, social economy, and military facets in countries.[38] The 2015 Failed State Index reports that the most fragile nation is South Sudan, and the least fragile one is Finland.[39] University of Maryland publishes the Peace and Conflict Instability Ledger in order to measure peace. It grades 163 countries with 5 indicators, and pays the most attention to risk of political instability or armed conflict over a three-year period. The most recent ledger shows that the most peaceful country is Slovenia on the contrary Afghanistan is the most conflicted nation. Besides indicated above reports from the Institute for Economics and Peace, Fund for Peace, and University of Maryland, other organizations including George Mason University release indexes that rank countries in terms of peacefulness.
See also[edit]


Catholic peace traditions
Prayer for Peace
Creative Peacebuilding
Global Peace Index
Group on International Perspectives on Governmental Aggression and Peace (GIPGAP)
Human overpopulation#Warfare and conflict
International Day of Peace
List of peace activists
List of places named Peace
Peace prizes
Moral syncretism
Peace education
Peace in Islamic philosophy
Peace Journalism
Peace makers
Peace One Day
Peace symbol
Peacekeeping
Peacemaking
Structural violence
Sulh
World Cease fire day
War resister
World peace
World Alliance of Religions Peace Summit (WARP Summit)


References[edit]



^ Dalai Lama XIV: Quotable Quotes Goodreads. Downloaded Sep 15, 2017
^ Online Etymology Dictionary, "Peace".
^ Benner, Jeff: Ancient Hebrew Research centre: http://www.ancient-hebrew.org/27_peace.html
^ Benner, Jeff: Ancient Hebrew Research Center:http://www.ancient-hebrew.org/27_messiah.html>
^ "For to us a child is born, to us a son is given, and the government will be on his shoulders. And he will be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, 'Prince of Peace'." [New International Version]
^ "peaceful quran". 
^ "peaceful quran". 
^ Essential Writings of Christian Mysticism Page 163. 2006. By Bernard McGinn.
^ R. K. Prabhu & U. R. Rao, editors; from section "The Gospel Of Sarvodaya", of the book The Mind of Mahatma Gandhi, Ahemadabad, India, Revised Edition, 1967.
^ Šmihula, Daniel (2013): The Use of Force in International Relations, p. 129, ISBN 978-80-224-1341-1.
^ "The Theory of Active Peace". internationalpeaceandconflict.org. 
^ "Excerpt from the Will of Alfred Nobel". Nobel Foundation. Archived from the original on 26 October 2007. Retrieved 2008-03-31. 
^ http://files.rhodes.gethifi.com/Ottawa_September_2011_To_render_war_impossible.pdf
^ Cecil Rhodes's goal of Scholarships promoting peace highlighted - The Rhodes Scholarships. Various materials on peace by Warden of the Rhodes House Donald Markwell in Markwell, "Instincts to Lead": On Leadership, Peace, and Education. Connor Court, 2013.
^ E.g., Donald Markwell, John Maynard Keynes and International Relations: Economic Paths to War and Peace. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2006.
^ http://www.politics.ox.ac.uk/materials/news/Fulbright_18May12_Arndt.pdf , http://www.rhodeshouse.ox.ac.uk/news/honouring-j-william-fulbright
^ See, e.g., "The Rhodes Scholarships of China" in Donald Markwell, "Instincts to Lead": On Leadership, Peace, and Education, Connor Court, 2013.
^ "The Peace Dome History". peacedome.org. 
^ einaudi.cornell.edu Archived 22 October 2007 at the Wayback Machine.
^ Shy, O., 1996, Industrial Organization: Theory and Applications, Cambridge, Mass.: The MIT Press.
^ Quoted from Donald Markwell, John Maynard Keynes and International Relations: Economic Paths to War and Peace. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2006, chapter 2.
^ For sources, see articles on liberalism and classical liberalism.
^ . See Donald Markwell. John Maynard Keynes and International Relations: Economic Paths to War and Peace. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2006.
^ Galtung, J: Peace by peaceful means: peace and conflict, development and civilization, page 32. Sage Publications, 1996.
^ Wilmerding, John. "The Theory of Active Peace". Archived from the original on 20 June 2009. Retrieved 7 February 2010. 
^ Macmillan, 1936.
^ See, e.g., Sir Harry Hinsley. Power and the Pursuit of Peace, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1962.
^ Discussed above. See, e.g., Donald Markwell. "Instincts to Lead": On Leadership, Peace, and Education (2013).
^ http://strategicforesight.com/publications.php#.WBm94-V94dU
^ Wolfgang Dietrich/Wolfgang Sützl: A Call for Many Peaces; in: Dietrich, Wolfgang, Josefina Echavarría Alvarez, Norbert Koppensteiner eds.: Key Texts of Peace Studies; LIT Münster, Vienna, 2006
^ Wolfgang Dietrich: Interpretations of Peace in History and Culture; Palgrave Macmillan, London, 2012
^ Wolfgang Dietrich, Josefina Echavarría Alvarez, Gustavo Esteva, Daniela Ingruber, Norbert Koppensteiner eds.: The Palgrave International Handbook of Peace Studies. A Cultural Approach; Palgrave MacMillan London, 2011
^ John Paul Lederach: Preparing for Peace; Syracuse University Press, 1996
^ Dugan, 1989: 74
^ "Vision of Humanity". visionofhumanity.org. 
^ Jethro Mullen, CNN (25 June 2015). "Study: Iceland is the most peaceful nation in the world - CNN.com". CNN. 
^ https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2017/06/these-are-the-most-peaceful-countries-in-the-world/
^ "Fragile States 2014 - Foreign Policy". foreignpolicy.com. 
^ "South Sudan Tops List of World's Fragile States - Again". VOA. 



Notes[edit]


Sir Norman Angell. The Great Illusion. 1909.
Raymond Aron, Peace and War. London: Weidenfeld & Nicolson, 1966
Hedley Bull. The Anarchical Society. Macmillan, 1977.
Sir Herbert Butterfield. Christianity, Diplomacy and War. 1952.
Martin Ceadel. Pacifism in Britain, 1914-1945: The Defining of a Faith. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1980.
Martin Ceadel. Semi-Detached Idealists: The British Peace Movement and International Relations, 1854-1945. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2000.
Martin Ceadel. The Origins of War Prevention: The British Peace Movement and International Relations, 1730-1854. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1996.
Martin Ceadel. Thinking about Peace and War. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1987.
Inis L. Claude, Jr. Swords into Ploughshares: The Problems and Progress of International Organization. 1971.
Michael W. Doyle. Ways of War and Peace: Realism, Liberalism, and Socialism. W.W. Norton, 1997.
Sir Harry Hinsley. Power and the Pursuit of Peace. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1962.
Andrew Hurrell. On Global Order. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2008.
Immanuel Kant. Perpetual Peace. 1795.
Donald Markwell. John Maynard Keynes and International Relations: Economic Paths to War and Peace. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2006.
Donald Markwell. "Instincts to Lead": On Leadership, Peace, and Education. Connor Court, 2013.
Hans Morgenthau. Politics Among Nations. 1948.
Steven Pinker. The Better Angels of Our Nature: Why Violence Has Declined. Viking, 2011.
Sir Alfred Zimmern. The League of Nations and the Rule of Law. Macmillan, 1936.
Kenneth Waltz. Man, the State and War. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1978.
Michael Walzer. Just and Unjust War. Basic Books, 1977.
J. Whalan. How Peace Operations Work. Oxford University Press, 2013.
Martin Wight. Power Politics. 1946 (2nd edition, 1978).
Letter from Birmingham Jail by Rev. Martin Luther King, Jr..
"Pennsylvania, A History of the Commonwealth," esp. pg. 109, edited by Randall M. Miller and William Pencak, The Pennsylvania State University Press, 2002.
Peaceful Societies, Alternatives to Violence and War Short profiles on 25 peaceful societies.
The Path to Peace, by Laure Paquette
Prefaces to Peace: a Symposium [i.e. anthology], Consisting of [works by] Wendell L. Willkie, Herbert Hoover and Hugh Gibson, Henry A. Wallace, [and] Sumner Welles. "Cooperatively published by Simon and Schuster; Doubleday, Doran, and Co.; Reynal & Hitchcock; [and] Columbia University Press", [194-]. xii, 437 p.


External links[edit]

Find more aboutPeaceat Wikipedia's sister projects

Definitions from Wiktionary
Media from Commons
News from Wikinews
Quotations from Wikiquote
Texts from Wikisource
Textbooks from Wikibooks
Learning resources from Wikiversity



Carnegie Endowment for International Peace
Lemonade a la Carnegie accessed 16 October 2012
Research Guide on Peace by the United Nations Library at Geneva
PeaceWiki
Peace Monuments Around the World
Peace at DMOZ
Working Group on Peace and Development (FriEnt)
Answers to: "How do we achieve world peace?"








v
t
e


Social and political philosophy



Philosophers



Alinsky
Ambedkar
Arendt
Aristotle
Augustine
Aurobindo
Aquinas
Aron
Averroes
Azurmendi
Badiou
Bakunin
Baudrillard
Bauman
Benoist
Bentham
Berlin
Bonald
Bosanquet
Burke
Judith Butler
Camus
Chanakya
Chomsky
Cicero
Comte
Confucius
De Beauvoir
Debord
Djilas
Du Bois
Durkheim
Emerson
Engels
Foucault
Fourier
Franklin
Gandhi
Gehlen
Gentile
Al-Ghazali
Gramsci
Grotius
Habermas
Han Fei
Hayek
Hegel
Heidegger
Hobbes
Hume
Irigaray
Jefferson
Kant
Kierkegaard
Kirk
Kropotkin
Laozi
Le Bon
Le Play
Leibniz
Lenin
Locke
Luxemburg
Machiavelli
Maistre
Malebranche
Mao
Marcuse
Maritain
Marsilius
Marx
Mencius
Michels
Mill
Mises
Montesquieu
Möser
Mozi
Muhammad
Negri
Nehru
Niebuhr
Nietzsche
Nozick
Oakeshott
Ortega
Paine
Pareto
Peterson
Pettit
Plamenatz
Plato
Polanyi
Popper
Radhakrishnan
Rand
Rawls
Renan
Rothbard
Rousseau
Royce
Ruskin
Russell
Sade
Santayana
Sarkar
Sartre
Schmitt
Searle
Shang
Simonović
Skinner
Smith
Socrates
Sombart
Spann
Spencer
Spinoza
Spirito
Stirner
Strauss
Sun
Sun Tzu
Taine
Taylor
Thucydides
Thoreau
Tocqueville
Vivekananda
Voltaire
Walzer
Weber
Žižek





Social theories



Ambedkarism
Anarchism
Authoritarianism
Collectivism
Communism
Communitarianism
Conflict theories
Confucianism
Consensus theory
Conservatism
Contractualism
Cosmopolitanism
Culturalism
Fascism
Feminist political theory
Gandhism
Individualism
Legalism
Liberalism
Libertarianism
Mohism
National liberalism
Republicanism
Social constructionism
Social constructivism
Social Darwinism
Social determinism
Socialism
Utilitarianism
Vaisheshika





Social concepts



Civil disobedience
Democracy
Four occupations
Justice
Law
Mandate of Heaven
Peace
Property
Revolution
Rights
Social contract
Society
War
more...





Related articles



Jurisprudence
Philosophy and economics
Philosophy of education
Philosophy of history
Philosophy of love
Philosophy of sex
Philosophy of social science
Political ethics
Social epistemology








Category
Portal
Task Force












v
t
e


Anti-war movement and peace




Opposition
to wars or
aspects of war




Afghan War
American Civil War
Iraq War
Landmines
Military action in Iran
Military intervention in Libya
Military taxation
Nuclear armament
Second Boer War
Sri Lankan Civil War
Vietnam War
War of 1812
War on Terror
World War I
World War II








Agents of
opposition



Anti-nuclear organizations
Anti-war movement
Anti-war organizations
Bed-In
Central Park be-ins
Conscientious objectors
Counterculture
Draft evasion
Human Be-In
List of peace activists
Peace and conflict studies
Peace camp
Peace churches
Peace commission
Peace education
Peace movement
Peace walk
Teach-in
War resisters
War tax resisters





Related
ideologies



Ahimsa
Anarcho-pacifism
Anarcho-punks
Anti-imperialism
Anti-nuclear movement
Antimilitarism
Appeasement
Christian anarchism
Direct action
Finvenkismo
Hippie
Isolationism
Non-interventionism
Nonkilling
Nonviolence
Pacificism
Pacifism
Satyagraha
Simple living
Socialism
Soviet influence on the peace movement





Media
and cultural



Art
Books
Films
International Day of Non-Violence
International Day of Peace
Dialogue Among Civilizations
List of places named Peace
"Make love, not war"
Monuments and memorials
Peace journalism

Peace News


Plays
Promoting Enduring Peace
Songs
Symbols
World Game





Countries



Canada
Germany
Israel
Netherlands
Spain
United Kingdom
United States












v
t
e


War






Peace (list)
Conflicts (list)
Ideas of War (lists)
Civil Wars (list)
Attacks (list)
Terrorism (list)
Massacres (list)
Warfare (list)
Battles (list)
Wars (list)
Ongoing armed conflicts (list)







Maps of the world showing all ongoing armed conflicts








Authority control



GND: 4071465-2
SELIBR: 168047
NDL: 00563072










 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Peace&oldid=812978513"					
Categories: PeaceNonviolencePacifismEthical principlesSocial conceptsVirtueFruit of the Holy SpiritHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback linksAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from December 2012Articles containing Sanskrit-language textArticles with unsourced statements from June 2013Articles with unsourced statements from August 2017Articles with DMOZ linksUse dmy dates from January 2011Wikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with SELIBR identifiers 
