Auction Network - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search








This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages)







This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (September 2014) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)









A major contributor to this article appears to have a close connection with its subject. It may require cleanup to comply with Wikipedia's content policies, particularly neutral point of view. Please discuss further on the talk page. (September 2014) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)









This article needs to be updated. Please update this article to reflect recent events or newly available information. (April 2016)





(Learn how and when to remove this template message)



Auction Network is a 24-hour[1] Internet and cable television channel that allows viewers to participate remotely in auctions taking place throughout the world. Viewers become “virtual bidders” in live auctions of items, including automobiles, collectibles, million dollar thoroughbreds, art, wine collections, and sports and celebrity memorabilia, among other things, with a portion of proceeds occasionally being donated to charity.[2]
The network launched October 28, 2007 as an Internet television network with streaming video, interactive bidding capability, Video On Demand and gaming content. The cable and satellite television platforms was launched in 2008.[3]
Supported by the National Auctioneers Association (NAA), Auction Network is the first network dedicated entirely to the global auction industry.
References[edit]



^ John Dempsey. "Auction Network plans launch". Variety. 
^ "Marketwire - Breaking news, press releases, social media news releases, business news - Marketwired". 
^ "FindArticles.com - CBSi". 



External links[edit]

Official website
http://auctionnetwork.tv[permanent dead link]





 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Auction_Network&oldid=795118206"					
Categories: American television networksOnline auction websitesHidden categories: Articles needing additional references from September 2014All articles needing additional referencesWikipedia articles with possible conflicts of interest from September 2014Wikipedia articles in need of updating from April 2016All Wikipedia articles in need of updatingOfficial website not in WikidataAll articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from October 2016Articles with permanently dead external links 
