GOD TV - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search







This article contains content that is written like an advertisement. Please help improve it by removing promotional content and inappropriate external links, and by adding encyclopedic content written from a neutral point of view. (May 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)




GOD TV




Type
Religious broadcasting


Country
United Kingdom, United States, Israel, India


Availability
Satellite worldwide, Cable and Terrestrial in some countries, Online.


Headquarters
Jerusalem, Plymouth, Chennai, Orlando


Owner
Owned by several Angel Charities globally. Worldwide broadcast licence is held by Angel Christian Television Trust Inc[1]



Launch date

1995



Former names

Christian Channel Europe, GOD Digital



Official website

www.god.tv


GOD TV is an international Christian media network that started in the UK and is now worldwide. The network has a strong presence in Israel and the USA and its main offices are located in Plymouth, England [2] and Orlando, Florida. Regional offices are situated in India, Sri Lanka, South Africa, Kenya, Ghana; and Australia.
The network broadcasts non-denominational programming in keeping with the UK Evangelical Alliance Basis of Faith. Its 24-hour, FTA schedule airs Christian leaders from diverse backgrounds - from Anglican to Pentecostal, Full Gospel and Messianic Judaism.
GOD TV's original productions have won awards from the Christian Broadcasting Council of the UK. Its schedule has five regional variations: USA; UK & Europe; Africa; Asia and Australasia each with local programming.
GOD TV employs 200 people[3] with Ward Simpson as President and CEO[4] Simpson hosts "Today With Ward' on GOD TV.
GOD TV broadcasts to some 200 nations and territories 24 hours a day, claiming a potential viewership of up to half a billion people. The Plymouth Herald says GOD TV can reach 262 million homes worldwide including 92.6 million homes in India.[5]



Contents


1 History
2 Programming

2.1 Regular series on GOD TV


3 GOD TV REGIONS
4 GOD TV - USA
5 GOD TV - UK, Europe, Scandinavia and Nordic countries
6 GOD TV - Africa and East Africa
7 GOD TV - Israel
8 GOD TV - Asia and Middle East
9 GOD TV - Sri Lanka
10 GOD TV - Australasia
11 Charitable work
12 References
13 External links



History[edit]




Rory and Wendy Alec in GOD TV's first transmission suite in Newcastle, England.


GOD TV was founded by Rory and Wendy Alec in England in 1995 as the Christian Channel Europe, the Continent's first daily Christian television network. It started broadcasting on 1 October, two hours each day.[6] This increased to seven hours in 1997 and 24-hours in 1999. The 'GOD' logo appeared in 1997 and the Christian Channel was rebranded as the GOD Channel. The GOD Channel became part of the Dream Family Network, later known as GOD Digital and then GOD TV in 2002. The same year GOD TV's broadcast uplink was moved to Israel. This provided for international expansion via satellite and GOD TV was launched across Africa and Asia with new offices in Cape Town and Chennai.[7]
In 2003 a GOD TV office was established in the USA in Orlando FL and in 2005 GOD TV launched across Australia and New Zealand. GOD TV launched on DIRECTV, America’s largest satellite platform in 2006[8] and opened a new office in Colombo, Sri Lanka in 2008. GOD TV also expanded into China during 2008.[9] Further offices were opened in Nairobi and Melbourne in 2009.
Rory Alec was the network’s CEO from 1995 to 2014. GOD TV announced on 2 October 2014 that he had resigned due to "moral failure"[10] and the couple divorced in 2015. Wendy Alec took over as President and CEO, a position she held for two years, before appointing Simpson.
Programming[edit]
GOD TV has a 24-hour schedule of international programming, often from a British perspective and includes live broadcasts of conferences, concerts, youth gatherings and other events.
Speakers range from US Bible teachers, Joyce Meyer, Creflo Dollar, Andrew Wommack, Kenneth Copeland and John Hagee to British church leaders, Canon Andrew White, Nicky Gumbel, Mike Pilavachi and J.John. Ministry leaders from Africa include South African evangelist, Angus Buchan and Nigerian pastor, David Ibiyeomie; Australian pastors, Brian Houston, Phil Pringle, Russell Evans and Ashley Evans; German evangelist, Reinhard Bonnke; and prominent Asian Bible teachers, Joseph Prince from Singapore and Sam Chelladurai from India.
Programming covers evangelism and revival: Nathan Morris (evangelist), John & Carol Arnott, Bill Johnson, Che Ahn, and Todd White. Prophetic voices include Rick Joyner, Cindy Jacobs, and Patricia King. The 'End Time Prayer Movement' is a key focus with conferences from the International House of Prayer in Kansas City with Mike Bickle; TheCall with Lou Engle; and TheCRY with Faytene Grasseschi.
Bible Prophecy speakers consist of Chuck Missler, Paul McGuire Joel Rosenburg and Jack Van Impe. Michael Brown and John Ankerberg are regular apologetics authorities. Jonathan Bernis, Sid Roth, Ron Cantor and Rabbi Schneider provide a Messianic Jewish perspective.
Worship leaders featured on GOD TV are Matt Redman, Tim Hughes and Martin Smith from the UK; The PlanetShakers Band; Hillsong Music and Darlene Zschech from Australia; and Misty Edwards, Jason Upton, Phil Wickham, Israel Houghton, Jesus Culture and Bethel Music from the USA.
Much of GOD TV's programming caters to a youth audience.[11] The network aims to air 'relevant youth programming' that comprises series and events from Soul Survivor with Mike Pilavachi and Andy Croft; !Audacious with Glyn Barrett; RockNations with Steve Gambill and; The Ramp with Karen Wheaton. Youth events often feature top bands such as Leeland; Switchfoot; Rend Collective Experiment; Jars of Clay; Guvna B and New World Son.
GOD TV themed series support causes such as ending Human Trafficking[12] Themed weekends have included The Persecuted Church season and the Refugees #LoveYourNeighbour Season.
GOD TV's original programming which includes In Depth interview series and documentaries. The network features live broadcasts, including worldwide satellite link-ups such as the Global Day of Prayer with Graham Power where GOD TV broadcast from South America for the first time in 2009.[13]
Regular series on GOD TV[edit]

Ask Me Anything and Word On Fire – Michael L. Brown
Apocalypse And The End Times – Paul McGuire (radio host)
Believer's Voice of Victory – Kenneth Copeland
Believers Walk of Faith - Bill Winston
CBN Christian World News - Christian Broadcasting Network
Church With GOD TV – John Kilpatrick
Cornerstone – John Hagee
Creflo Dollar
Daniel Kolenda
Desiring All Nations - Nathan Morris (evangelist)
Discovering The Jewish Jesus - Rabbi Schneider
Enjoying Everyday Life – Joyce Meyer
Everlasting Love – Patricia King
Family Time – Angus Buchan
GOD@Work – Rich Marshall
GOD is For You – David Blunt
God Knows TV – Cindy Jacobs
Gospel Truth – Andrew Wommack
Good News – Daniel Kolenda and Reinhard Bonnke
Hillsong TV – Brian Houston
Hour of Salvation – David Ibiyeomie
In Touch – Charles Stanley
It's Supernatural – Sid Roth
James River TV
Jerusalem Dateline – Christian Broadcasting Network
Jewish Voice – Jonathan Bernis
New Creation Church – Joseph Prince
ORU Alive – Oral Roberts University
Out Of Zion – Rob Cantor
Oxford Bible Church – Derek Walker
Passion For Jesus – Mike Bickle
Questioning Christianity – Panel
Roots & Reflections – Barry Segal
700 Club Interactive – Gordon Robertson and Terry Meeuwsen Christian Broadcasting Network
Sex in the Digital Age – Craig Gross
Today With Ward – Ward Simpson
Time for Change – Apostle Guillermo Maldonado
The Messenger - John & Lisa Bevere
The Mum Show - Marina Magdalena
The Living Stone Church – RE Holder
The John Ankerberg Show - John Ankerberg
Throne Room Prayer - Lila Terhune
World Impact - Billy Wilson (academic)

Other speakers include Michael Koulianos, Banning Liebscher, Lou Engle, Rick Joyner, Bill Johnson (pastor), Heidi Baker, Todd White, Ben Fitzgerald, Randy Clark, Mark Chironna, Lance Wallnau and Steven Furtick.
GOD TV REGIONS[edit]
GOD TV has several specific regions, each with its own regional director and office overseeing local content, distribution and providing viewer services. The regions are: the USA; UK, Europe, Scandinavia and Nordic countries; Africa and East Africa; Asia and the Middle East; Israel; Sri Lanka and Australasia.
GOD TV - USA[edit]
GOD TV launched in the USA in 2006 on DirecTV, America's largest satellite platform and can be found on channel 365.[14] It can also be seen in some US cities via cable[15] and on satellite via Galaxy 19 (97W) in the USA, Canada, Mexico, Central America and the Caribbean.
GOD TV launched in Orlando, Florida in 2012, when it became available on channel 55.2 via digital terrestrial transmission.[16] As part of the Orlando launch, the Bay Revival on Tour was broadcast from Calvary Assembly of God in Winter Park with John Kilpatrick, Nathan Morris and Lydia Marrow.[17] The network maintains an office in Orlando.
American singer, actor and writer Pat Boone endorses GOD TV, and has participated in its work.[18]
GOD TV - UK, Europe, Scandinavia and Nordic countries[edit]




GOD TV broadcasting live from Plymouth in 2014


GOD TV is transmitted in the UK on Sky satellite channel 580, Freesat channel 694,[19] Virgin Media channel 287, WightFibre, and Smallworld Cable.
The Angel Foundation is GOD TV's registered charity in Europe and is regulated by the Charity Commission for England and Wales. Based in Plymouth the Angel Foundation states that it is committed to "the advancement of the Christian religion and education, and the relief of poverty, distress and sickness."[20] As of 2010[update] GOD TV was "potentially available to up to 14 million homes in the UK".[21]
Fergus Scarfe is GOD TV's Regional Director for the UK & Ireland, based in Plymouth[22]
GOD TV's programming has won awards from the UK Christian Broadcasting Council, including Best Live Event Programme in 2011 for Angus Buchan's Mighty Men Event[23] and Best Youth Programme for Soul Survivor Extra.[24]
Some European networks carry GOD TV in their satellite and cable television packages in Belgium, France,[25] Germany,[26] Ireland, Malta, the Netherlands and Scandinavia. The channel is also available through P2PTV service Zattoo.
GOD TV - Africa and East Africa[edit]
Angel Television Africa was established in South Africa in 2002 and GOD TV launched across Africa on 31 May of the same year.[27] Marcél Olivier is GOD TV's Regional Director for Africa and heads up the office in Cape Town. Erastus Maina oversees GOD TV's East Africa Region, with an office in Nairobi.
GOD TV's programming can be accessed across Africa via satellite. It can be watched via ViewSat covering 20 million homes across Sub-Saharan Africa on the IS20 Satellite.[28] GOD TV can be found on channel 362 of StarSat in Southern Africa.[29] In Kenya GOD TV is carried on Kiss TV.[30]
Angus Buchan's Mighty Men Conference was transmitted live on GOD TV from South Africa, with 400,000 men in attendance,[31] and evangelist Reinhard Bonnke was filmed live from Nigeria.[32]
GOD TV Africa local speakers include Matt Ludick of Emmanuel Church in Namibia (Kingdom Expansion) and Gary Kieswetter (Open Wells) and Kari Smith (Kingdom GPS) from South Africa. Marcél Olivier is a host on 'Prayer Time' each weekday.
GOD TV - Israel[edit]
GOD TV has had an established presence in Israel since 2001 and Ron Cantor is GOD TV's Regional Director for Israel.




GOD TV Camera Crew on location in Israel.


The network hosts tours to Israel which include visiting Bible sites and staging events that are broadcast worldwide. The largest tour to date was in 2008 with 1,800 tour goers who attended 'A Celebration of Israel's 60th Anniversary'. Held at the Davidson Center alongside the Western Wall in the Old City, this was attended by both Jewish and Christian guests.[33] GOD TV's Arise Zion Tour will take place in 2018 as part of Israel's 70th Anniversary celebrations.
In 2009 GOD TV partnered with the Jewish National Fund (JNF) US$500,000 to plant trees on land said to be inhabited by Bedouin tribes in Israel's Negev region. A coalition of Jewish and Arab human rights groups denounced the project, accusing GOD TV and the JNF of teaming up to force the Bedouin out of the area to make way for Jewish communities.[34]
GOD TV's CEO Ward Simpson was in Israel in October 2017 at the invitation of the Israeli government, to address a Christian Media Summit in Jerusalem. [35]
GOD TV - Asia and Middle East[edit]
Angel Christian Charitable Foundation India was founded in 2002 with an office in Chennai headed by Thomas Robinson.[36]
GOD TV can be viewed by cable in cities across India; Indian Television.com includes GOD TV in its list of "best-known spiritual channels."[37] Local programming includes Indian evangelist Sam P. Chelladurai.
Three million viewers can watch GOD TV via cable in Pakistan and it is also on cable in Nepal. GOD TV also broadcasts into Thailand.
GOD TV has broadcast a 'Middle East Special' helping to provide food for beleaguered Christians and Muslims in war-torn Iraq.[38]
GOD TV - Sri Lanka[edit]
GTV Lanka Foundation is GOD TV's company in Colombo, with David Nicolle as regional director. Dialog Satellite Television, Sri Lanka Telecom and Apstar Satellite carry GOD TV in Sri Lanka. GOD TV has supported Sri Lankan victims of the Asian tsunami.[39]
GOD TV - Australasia[edit]
Angel Christian Television Australia Limited was established in 2005[40] enabling GOD TV to be watched on the Optus D2 satellite.[41] GOD TV's office for this region is in Melbourne and is managed by Wayne Knapman.[42]
Local content in Australia includes series such as Victory Life Church - Margaret Court; PlanetShakers[43] and Brian Houston @ Hillsong TV[44] as well as conferences from Hillsong,[45] Stairway Church, Arise NZ,[46] Influencers and C3 Church.
Corrective Services Queensland has allowed Instal-Life to provide equipment enabling inmates across the state to access GOD TV in their cells. Prisons in Western Australia have also installed GOD TV and it is available in other rehabilitation centres and remote indigenous communities.[47]
The Melbourne office also manages Hong Kong, Macau and Greater China. Macau Cable has been broadcasting the GOD TV signal into Macau since 1 October 2006. GOD TV launched its Greater China service on 16 October 2008[48] and has televised events from China.[49] The Kingdom Culture Conference has aired on GOD TV from Hong Kong.
GOD TV launched in the South Sea nation of Vanuatu on the 27 April 2013. Espiritu Santo (Holy Spirit Island) has access to the GOD TV 24 via terrestrial free to air TV. The Prime Minister, Moana Carcasses Kalosil turned on the signal. GOD TV has been installed in prisons in Vanuatu.[50]
GOD TV is also available on some cable networks in Papua New Guinea.
Charitable work[edit]
GOD TV supports humanitarian projects internationally. During its January 2017 Bless Israel campaign, funds were raised towards supporting underprivileged Messianic Jews and Christian Arabs and orphaned children in partnership with Scott Volk of Together For Israel.
In Malawi, it cares for HIV/AIDS orphans by supporting Kondanani Children's Village, founded by Annie Chikhwaza.[51] and is involved in various charitable initiatives in Sri Lanka. In the UK it supports Mercy Ministries, a charity helping young women suffering from abuse.
GOD TV has raised funds to help Christians in Iraq at St George's Church in Baghdad, through a Middle East Special.[52] A target of its humanitarian work has been to provide clean water in arid regions of Africa (Kenya and Tanzania) where it has drilled water wells. A community 'Life Center' was built in Tanzania in conjunction with Pat Boone.[53]
References[edit]



^ "Mission Statement". GOD TV. Archived from the original on 31 August 2011. 
^ Daly, Patrick. 'GOD TV buys former Land Registry property' - "GOD TV has purchased the former Land Registry property in Burrington Industrial Estate and plans to use it as a base for its European operation.", The Herald (Plymouth), 19 February 2014.
^ Telford, William.'GOD TV buys former Land Registry property' - "Two hundred people work for GOD TV worldwide, but the core team will be in Plymouth.", The Herald (Plymouth), 30 April 2014.
^ - "GOD TV founder Wendy Alec just appointed Ward Simpson as CEO. Simpson's installation is being positioned as a 'new season' for the global network.", Jennifer LeClaire Charisma (magazine), Lake Mary, FL, 3 October 2016.
^ Telford, William. 'GOD TV investment paves way for Plymouth Union Street Development' - "The channel can reach 262 million homes worldwide, including 92.6 million in India.", The Herald (Plymouth), 19 February 2014.
^ - 'Christians On TV - The Christian Channel Europe the first Christian cable TV channel in the UK is now being aired.' - "THE FIRST Christian cable TV channel in the UK, The Christian Channel Europe, is now on air. The channel is the first cable TV channel aimed squarely at European Christians. TCCE will be available from the Astra Satellite on the same channel as Sky Soap and Sky Sports 2 between 04:00 and 07:00 GMT daily from November." , Cross Rhythms, 1st December 1995.
^ GOD TV' BROADCASTS FROM THE HOLY LAND' - "Christian TV programming is beaming from the Holy Land round-the-clock since the United Kingdom-based GOD TV network relocated its broadcast center to Jerusalem. The July move has broadened the network's reach to 80 percent of the world, with millions of homes in India now able to tune into the GOD Channel via cable.", Charisma (magazine), 31 October 2002.
^ [Europe's "GOD TV" Expands to the United States - "Europe’s Christian broadcaster GOD TV is scheduled to officially launch in the United States on DirectTV on 6 October 2005."], Christian Today, 29 September 2005.
^ 'GOD TV debuts in China' - "GOD TV has been steadily making inroads into the Far East with daily broadcasts in Hong Kong. But now, in an unprecedented development, millions in China can access GOD TV's mix of Christian programming 24-hours-a- day. The expansion follows the launch of GOD TV's dedicated Greater China service on 16 October 2008, which is broadcast directly from Jerusalem via two new satellites, providing the entire Far East region with Christian programming.", Christian Today, 20 October 2008.
^ LeClaire, Jennifer. - "Citing Moral Failure, GOD TV Co-Founder Rory Alec Resigns.", Charisma (magazine), 2 October 2014.
^ '30 Emerging Voices' - "The Alecs... produce programs that are hip and sophisticated for younger viewers who can't stomach most other religious programming. Unless other broadcasters figure out a way to reconnect with younger viewers, it is likely that GOD TV's debut in the United States will send channel surfers in the Alecs' direction.", Charisma (magazine), Lake Mary, FL, 31 July 2005.
^ 'GOD TV, Musicians Partner Against Human Trafficking', Dakota Voice, 29 January 2009.
^ 'GOD TV to broadcast Global Day of Prayer live', Christianity Today 25 May 2009.
^ [1]
^ 'GOD TV Tops 20 Million Homes in the USA' - "Global Christian broadcaster expands its distribution base to several key cities."
^ 'GOD TV: What would Jesus watch?'- "GOD TV, a global Christian broadcasting network, today announces that viewers throughout Central Florida can now watch the network on channel 55.2."
^ [2][permanent dead link]
^ Boone, Pat 'Living What We Believe', WorldNetDaily, 31 July 2010.
^ [3]
^ 'Angel Foundation, the' Charities Direct.com
^ 'Where to hear the word of God', ''The Independent Business Diary, Thursday, 12 August 2010.
^ 'GOD TV: Supporting of Carer of the year award at Plymouth Community Awards' "GOD TV is thrilled to be sponsoring the Carer of the Year Award again this year," says Fergus Scarfe, GOD TV Regional Director. In the midst of so much hardship faced by many in our community, it is amazing to see so many wonderful Plymouthians contributing to the daily lives of those in need." The Herald (Plymouth) December 07, 2016.
^ 'Excellent directing from GOD TV. A very special production with excellent teaching from Angus.' CBC Media Awards, Best Live Event Programme, Angus Buchan's Mighty Men Event, Gold, The Christian Broadcasting Council of the UK, London
^ 'A different way to produce a major youth event... exciting, vibrant and beyond the norm.' CBC Media Awards, Best Youth Programme, Soul Survivor Extra, Gold, The Christian Broadcasting Council of the UK, London
^ "GOD TV, la télévision évangéliste, propose une programmation basée sur la foi et la lecture de la Bible. Leur objectif : inviter un milliard d'âmes à assister à des conférences, des débats, de l'enseignement religieux. Aider à mieux vivre sa foi, voilà l'objectif de GOD TV."
^ 'CHRISTLICHES TV IN DEUTSCHLAND'
^ Carew, Douglas. 'Switch on to GOD TV - a heavenly new channel' - "South Africans now have satellite access to a TV station named after God, after GOD TV hit the country's television airwaves"., Cape Argus, Cape Town, 31 May 2002 .
^ 'ViewSat Helps GOD TV Expand Audience' - "Whilst GOD TV is a global television network with over 264 million connected homes, GOD TV Africa has been expanding its footprint on the continent to over 20 million connected homes since it was launched in 2002."., InBroadcast International Industry News, 8 January 2015.
^ 'StarSat'
^ - "Yesterday saw the conclusion of an agreement between Kiss TV and the world's biggest Christian broadcaster, GOD TV... We have come to an agreement with Kiss TV to broadcast only the best content from GOD TV. Kiss viewers will watch GOD TV between 5-9 am every morning."
^ 'GOD TV to air Angus Buchan men's conference', Christianity Today 23 April 2009
^ 'Christian Television World First for GOD TV' - "America's newest Christian network, GOD TV today announced that it will be screening world-renowned Evangelist, Reinhard Bonnke’s latest mass crusade – LIVE from West Africa to the USA and across the globe next week", 25 May 2007.
^ 'Thousands Gather for GOD TV Israel Tour', Christianity Today 2 November 2007.
^ 'Jesus Recruited: God-TV Helps Israel Oust Bedouin.' - "Half a million trees planted over the past 18 months on the ancestral lands of Bedouin tribes in Israel's Negev region were bought by a controversial Christian evangelical television channel that calls itself God-TV.", Palestine Chronicle, 28 December 2010.
^ Schiavi, N.J. 'Christian reporters call Israel’s media summit a success' - "Israeli officials were able to connect with leading Christian media personalities. The heads of several large outlets attended the summit including Christian Broadcasting Network (CBN) CEO Gordon Robertson, Trinity Broadcasting Network President Matt Crouch, Good TV International Manager Winifred Yeh, God TV CEO Ward Simpson and author Mike Evans who founded Friends of Zion Museum in Jerusalem.", Kehila News Israel.', Oct 26, 2017.
^ Harsh Kabra. 'God rides the ether as his angels, in many flavours' "Which way do you then look at the likes of God TV? Reveals Thomas Robinson, channel director for Asia and Middle East: "Our channel is about spreading the love of God, helping people find God. It’s not about a religion but about the person Jesus who brings joy and peace into our lives... We respect the varied culture and beliefs of everyone...", Outlook India, 20 October 2003.
^ Pherwanieema, Sseema. 'Indiantelevision.com Special Report' "There are millions of viewers across the country seeking salvation via the tube. In an angst driven and time-pressed society, viewers are lapping up the best of what the spiritual channels have to offer. A few years ago, there were just a few of them… Now there are many more - there is Aastha, Sanskar, Sadhana, Jagran, GOD TV, Miraclenet and QTV, to name the better known ones.", 4 June 2005.
^ Russ Bravo. 'Christian broadcasting awards celebrate rising standards' "Gold for the best broadcast interview went to God TV’s Middle East Special – Baghdad, where Christians are living under the ever-present threat of suicide bombs. Rory Alec interviewed Canon Andrew White, the Vicar of Baghdad, in a programme described by the judges as “Brilliant, revealing what it is like for Christians to live each day as if it were their last.” The programme was produced and directed by Graeme Spencer, who picked up two other gold awards."
^ Chathuri Dissanayake 'Buddhist leaders say God TV on Dialog no threat' - "GOD, the evangelical channel of the American New Church is now available to Sri Lankan viewers on request...The God TV Channel has also been involved in the provision of tsunami relief to Sri Lankan victims.". The Sunday Times, Sri Lanka, Sunday, August 05, 2007.
^ Angel Christian Television Australia Limited is a limited by guarantee Australian public company
^ Optus D2 at 152.0°E
^ Wayne is currently the GOD TV Regional Director for Australasia, Hong Kong & Greater China.
^ Planetshakers on GOD TV
^ Hillsong Church on GOD TV
^ Hillsong Conference to broadcast on God TV
^ Arise Church New Zealand on GOD TV
^ Instal-Life puts GOD TV into Prisons
^ 'GOD TV debuts in China' - "GOD TV has been steadily making inroads into the Far East with daily broadcasts in Hong Kong. But now, in an unprecedented development, millions in China can access GOD TV's mix of Christian programming 24-hours-a- day. The expansion follows the launch of GOD TV's dedicated Greater China service on 16 October 2008, which is broadcast directly from Jerusalem via two new satellites, providing the entire Far East region with Christian programming.", Christian Today, 20 October 2008.
^ GOD TV Airs Ground-Breaking Event from China - Faith News Network
^ Vanuatu is the 1st Pacific nation to get GOD TV
^ 'GOD TV Celebrates 10 Years in Africa' - "GOD TV also has a strong charitable outreach in African nations. GOD TV supports Kondanani Children's Village in Malawi, a country of one million orphans. It has assisted with a hydro-electric water project in Zambia and the drilling of several wells to provide clean water to desperate villagers in arid areas of Kenya and Tanzania." Faith That Inspires Action - Posted by Rev. Robert A. Crutchfield.
^ 'GOD TV Focuses on the Middle East' - "The GOD TV family will also be praying for the people of the Middle East and extending a hand of compassion by giving a portion of the funds raised through the broadcasts to the persecuted congregation of St Georges Church in Baghdad, Iraq. GOD TV regularly supports these Iraqi believers who are making a bold stand for Christ, and Rory Alec led a GOD TV team to Iraq in May to bring viewers an update on how they are making a difference in people's lives in this war-torn country." Christian Newswire, 7 June 2011
^ 'GOD TV Brings Christian Values to Millions' - "I’ve been participating in a fabulous project mounted by GOD TV, the worldwide satellite Christian channel... They’ve launched a gigantic program called “Cape Town to Cairo,” a beautifully conceived plan to drill deep freshwater wells up and down the whole continent of Africa, where people by the millions are languishing without clean water." Pat Boone, Newsmax, Monday, 2 August 2010,



External links[edit]

GOD TV Official site







v
t
e


Broadcast television networks in the United States










v
t
e


English-language broadcast television networks in the United States



Major



ABC
CBS
The CW
Fox
NBC





Minor



AMG
Ion
MyNetwork
Youtoo America





Public TV



PBS

Kids


American Public Television

Create
World


CAS
MHz Worldview
NASA TV





Specialty




Information



Cheddar
Doctor
Weather

AccuWeather
WeatherNation







Sports



Frost Great Outdoors
Pursuit
Rev'n
Stadium
Untamed





Other



Family Channel
Justice
Qubo
TBD
Ethnic

Asia Vision
Bounce
Soul of the South


Gender

Escape
Grit
Tuff


Lifestyle

Ion Life
LWN


Music

TCN
Heartland







International



CV
DW
France 24
NHK
Korean

Arirang
KBS
KEMS
MBC
SBS







Classic



Antenna
Cozi
Decades
Get
Light
Me
Retro
Movies

Movies!
This






Genre



Buzzr
Charge!
Comet
H&I
Laff








Shopping



Evine
HSN
Jewelry
LifehacksDRTV
OnTV4U
QVC
Shop LC








Defunct




Major



DuMont
NET
UPN
The WB





Minor



A1
AIN
Ch.America
FamilyNetc
Hughes
Mizlou
N1
NATVi
NTA Film
Omni
ON/UN
PTN
Plum
PTEN
SFM Holiday
Star
Theater
TVS
UATV
Variety
Works





Specialty



News

ABC News Now
All News
DoD News
NBC Wx+/NBC+
TouchVision


Dot2
PBJ
Research
Sportsmanc
Sports

American Sports Network
Universal


WSTV
Shopping

America's Store
Gems TV
Gun TV
Shop at Home







Music



Bohemia Visual Musici
The Box
MTV2c
Tr3sc
Retro Jams
TheCoolTVi
The Tube






c - Now cable-only, i - Now internet-only
















v
t
e


Spanish-language broadcast television networks in the United States



Major



Azteca América
Estrella TV
Telemundo
UniMás
Univision





Specialty



LATV (bilingual English/Spanish)
Mega TV
Cine Mexicano
Tele N
MiCasa Network
Mira TV
Multimedios
¡Sorpresa!
TeleXitos
TeLe-Romántica
Tr3́s





Defunct



América CV
Hispanic Television Network
Inmigrante TV
LAT TV
MundoMax
Soi TV
TuVisión
VasalloVision















v
t
e


Religious broadcast television networks in the United States



TBN Networks



TBN
Hillsong
JUCE
Smile
Enlace (in Spanish)
Salsa





English







3ABN
Al Karma TV
Amazing Facts
BYU
Catholic
CBN
CTN
Cornerstone
Daystar
EICB
EWTN
Family
GEB
GLC
GOD
Hope
Hope Church
INSP
IQRA TV
Loma Linda
Sonlife
Telecare
Tri-State
Total Living
Unity
Walk
Word
World Harvest
Worship








Spanish



3ABN Latino
Aliento Vision
Almavisión
Aviva TV
CTNi
Esperanza TV
Familia TV
Fe-TV
HCCN
Iglesia JEMIR
Red AdVenir
Tele Vida Abundante
Tvida Vision















v
t
e


Additional resources on North American television



North America



List of local television stations in North America
DTV transition
North American TV mini-template





Canada



Canadian networks
List of Canadian television networks
List of Canadian television channels
List of Canadian specialty channels
Local Canadian TV stations
List of United States stations available in Canada
2001 Vancouver TV realignment
2007 Canada broadcast TV realignment





Mexico



Mexican networks
Local Mexican TV stations





United States



American networks
List of American cable and satellite networks
List of American over-the-air networks
Local American TV stations (W)
Local American TV stations (K)
Spanish-language TV networks
1994 United States broadcast TV realignment
2006 United States broadcast TV realignment
List of Canadian television stations available in the United States
Insular Areas TV















v
t
e


Digital television in North America



Terrestrial




Digital broadcasting



ATSC tuners
Digital subchannels
Virtual channels
Distributed transmission system
Datacasting

Guide Plus
National Datacast
UpdateLogic


Metropolitan Television Alliance
Grand Alliance





Digital switchover



All-Channel Receiver Act
SAFER Act
Digital channel election
Set-top boxes
Digital television adapter
U.S. Converter Box Coupon Program

legislation


Analog passthrough
DVD recorders
Digital video recorders





Digital standards



ATSC Standards

ATSC
ATSC-M/H
8VSB
A-VSB
E-VSB
PSIP
PMCP
full list


Standard-definition TV

480i
576i


Enhanced-definition TV

480p
576p


High-definition TV

720p
1080i
1080p


Serial digital interface
Smart antennas

CEA-909







Digital networks



see Template:American broadcast television
Template:Canadian television networks





National deployment



List by country
Canada
Mexico
United States

HDTV
transition
wireless spectrum auction










Cable




Digital cable



Digital-cable-ready TV

QAM tuners


Interactive-digital-cable-ready TV

OpenCable Application Platform


Encryption
Must-carry





Subscription TV



AllVid
CableCARD
Downloadable Conditional Access System
Tru2way








Satellite TV



DVB-S

Dish Network
GlobeCast World TV
Free-to-air receiver
Bell TV/Telus Satellite TV
Dish México


DigiCipher 2

4DTV
Shaw Direct


Digital Satellite Service/DVB-S2

DirecTV







IPTV



AT&T U-verse
Bell Fibe TV
FibreOP
Telus Optik TV





Technical issues



14:9
Active Format Description
Broadcast flag
Channel protection ratios
HDTV blur
Hierarchical modulation
Pirate decryption
Standards conversion
Video on demand













 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=GOD_TV&oldid=811572720"					
Categories: American television networksReligious television stations in the United StatesReligious television channels in the United KingdomTelevision channels and stations established in 1995Christian media in the United KingdomChristian media in the United StatesChristian media in IsraelChristian television stations1995 establishments in the United KingdomHidden categories: All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from October 2017Articles with permanently dead external linksUse dmy dates from October 2013Articles with a promotional tone from May 2017All articles with a promotional tonePages using deprecated image syntaxArticles containing potentially dated statements from 2010All articles containing potentially dated statementsArticles with Spanish-language external links 
