Child - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

This article is about the juvenile human. For other uses, see Child (disambiguation).
"Children" redirects here. For other uses, see Children (disambiguation).


Part of a series on


Human growth
and development





Stages




Human embryogenesis
Fetus
Infant
Toddler
Early childhood
Child
Preadolescence
Adolescence
Adult
Middle age
Old age




Biological milestones




Fertilization
Childbirth
Walking
Language acquisition
Puberty
Menopause
Ageing
Death




Development and psychology




Pre- and perinatal
Infant and child
Adolescent
Youth
Young adult
Adult
Maturity





Developmental stage theories





Attachment
Ecological
Psychosocial
Psychosexual development
Moral
Cognitive
Cultural-historical
Evolutionary






 Human body portal







v
t
e





Biologically, a child (plural: children) is a human being between the stages of birth and puberty.[1][2] The legal definition of child generally refers to a minor, otherwise known as a person younger than the age of majority.[1]
Child may also describe a relationship with a parent (such as sons and daughters of any age)[3] or, metaphorically, an authority figure, or signify group membership in a clan, tribe, or religion; it can also signify being strongly affected by a specific time, place, or circumstance, as in "a child of nature" or "a child of the Sixties".[4]
There are many social issues that affect children, such as childhood education, bullying, child poverty, dysfunctional families, child labor, hunger, and child homelessness. Children can be raised by parents, by fosterers, guardians or partially raised in a day care center.



Contents


1 Legal, biological, social definitions
2 Development
3 Pretend Scenarios
4 Health
5 Age of responsibility
6 Child mortality
7 Education
8 Attitudes toward children
9 Gallery
10 See also
11 References



Legal, biological, social definitions[edit]




Children playing ball games, Roman artwork, 2nd century AD


Legally, the term "child" may refer to anyone below the age of majority or some other age limit. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child defines child as "a human being below the age of 18 years unless under the law applicable to the child, majority is attained earlier".[5] This is ratified by 192 of 194 member countries. The term "child" may also refer to someone below another legally defined age limit unconnected to the age of majority. In Singapore, for example, a "child" is legally defined as someone under the age of 14 under the "Children and Young Persons Act" whereas the age of majority is 21.[6][7] In U.S. Immigration Law, a child refers to anyone who is under the age of 21.[8]
Biologically, a child is generally anyone between birth and puberty.[1][2] Some English definitions of the word child include the fetus (sometimes termed the unborn).[9] In many cultures, a child is considered an adult after undergoing a rite of passage, which may or may not correspond to the time of puberty.
Children generally have fewer rights than adults and are classed as unable to make serious decisions, and legally must always be under the care of a responsible adult or child custody, whether their parents divorce or not. Recognition of childhood as a state different from adulthood began to emerge in the 16th and 17th centuries. Society began to relate to the child not as a miniature adult but as a person of a lower level of maturity needing adult protection, love and nurturing. This change can be traced in paintings: In the Middle Ages, children were portrayed in art as miniature adults with no childlike characteristics. In the 16th century, images of children began to acquire a distinct childlike appearance. From the late 17th century onwards, children were shown playing with toys and later literature for children also began to develop at this time.[10]
Development[edit]
Every child goes through many stages of social development. An infant or very young child will play alone happily. If another child wanders onto the scene, he or she may be physically attacked or pushed out of the way by the other. Next, the child can play with another child, gradually learning to share and take turns. Eventually, the group grows larger, to three or four children. By the time a child enters kindergarten, he or she can usually join in and enjoy group experiences.[11]
Pretend Scenarios[edit]
As a child is growing they are learning how to do some tasks in chronological order. They learn how to prioritize their goals and actions. Their behavior is transcending as they learn new perspectives from other people. They learn how to represent certain things symbolically and learn new behavior.[12]
Health[edit]
Children with ADHD and learning disabilities may need extra help to develop social skills. The impulsive characteristics of an ADHD child may lead to poor peer relationships. Children with poor attention spans may not tune into social cues in their environment, making it difficult for them to learn social skills through experience.[13] Health issues affecting children is sometimes dependent on gender; for example boys are more likely to be diagnosed with autism than girls.[14]
Age of responsibility[edit]
Further information: Age of consent, Age of majority, Age of criminal responsibility, and Marriageable age
The age at which children are considered responsible for their society-bound actions (e. g. marriage, voting, etc.) has also changed over time, and this is reflected in the way they are treated in courts of law. In Roman times, children were regarded as not culpable for crimes, a position later adopted by the Church. In the 19th century, children younger than seven years old were believed incapable of crime. Children from the age of seven forward were considered responsible for their actions. Therefore, they could face criminal charges, be sent to adult prison, and be punished like adults by whipping, branding or hanging.[15] Today, in many countries like Canada and the United States, children twelve and older are held responsible for their actions. They may be sent to special correctional institutions, such as juvenile hall.
Surveys have found that at least 25 countries around the world have no specified age for compulsory education. Minimum employment age and marriage age also vary. In at least 125 countries, children aged 7–15 may be taken to court and risk imprisonment for criminal acts. The age limit of voluntary/involuntary military service is also disputed at the international level.[16] In some countries, children are legally obliged to go to school until they are 14 or 15 years old, but may also work before that age. A child's right to education is threatened by early marriage, child labor and imprisonment.[17]
Child mortality[edit]
Main articles: Child mortality and Infant mortality




World infant mortality rates in 2012.[18]


During the early 17th century in England, average life expectancy was only about 35 years, largely because two-thirds of all children died before the age of four.[19] During the Industrial Revolution, the life expectancy of children increased dramatically.[20]
According to population health experts, child mortality rates have fallen sharply since the 1990s. About 12.6 million under-five infants died annually worldwide in 1990, which has declined to 6.6 million infant deaths in 2012. The infant mortality rate has dropped from 90 deaths per 1,000 live births in 1990, to 48 in 2012. The highest average infant mortality rates are in Sub-Saharan Africa, at 98 deaths per 1,000 live births - over double the world's average of 48.[18]
Education[edit]
Main article: Education
Education, in the general sense, refers to the act or process of imparting or acquiring general knowledge, developing the powers of reasoning and judgment, and preparing intellectually for mature life.[21] Formal education most often takes place through schooling. A right to education has been recognized by some governments. At the global level, Article 13 of the United Nations' 1966 International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights recognizes the right of everyone to an education.[22] Education is compulsory in most places up to a certain age, but attendance at school may not be, with alternative options such as home-schooling or e-learning being recognized as valid forms of education in certain jurisdictions.
Children in some countries (especially in parts of Africa and Asia) are often kept out of school, or attend only for short periods. Data from UNICEF indicate that in 2011, 57 million children were out of school; and more than 20% of African children have never attended primary school or have left without completing primary education.[23] According to a UN report, warfare is preventing 28 million children worldwide from receiving an education, due to the risk of sexual violence and attacks in schools.[24] Other factors that keep children out of school include poverty, child labor, social attitudes, and long distances to school.[25][26]
In 2017, Prof Andrei Cimpian's study indicated that girls as young as six years of age can have the idea that being "a genius" is more likely found in males. The study also indicated that this leads more to the uprising of gender stereotypes.[27]
Attitudes toward children[edit]




Group of breaker boys in Pittston, Pennsylvania, 1911. Child labor was very common in U.S. and Europe in late 19th and early 20th century. Currently, child labor rates are highest in Africa.


Social attitudes toward children differ around the world in various cultures. These attitudes have changed over time. A 1988 study on European attitudes toward the centrality of children found that Italy was more child-centric and the Netherlands less child-centric, with other countries, such as Austria, Great Britain, Ireland and West Germany falling in between.[28]
In 2013, child marriage rates reached 75% in Niger, 68% in Central African Republic and Chad, 66% in Bangladesh, and 47% in India.[29]
Protection of children from abuse is considered an important contemporary goal. This includes protecting children from exploitation such as child labor, child trafficking and selling, child sexual abuse, including child prostitution and child pornography, military use of children, and child laundering in illegal adoptions. There exist several international instruments for these purposes, such as:

Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention
Minimum Age Convention, 1973
Optional Protocol on the Sale of Children, Child Prostitution and Child Pornography
Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse
Optional Protocol on the Involvement of Children in Armed Conflict
Hague Adoption Convention
European Union's Directive 2011/92/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on combating the sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography.[30]

Gallery[edit]







1-year old









2-year old









3-year-old









4-year-old









5-year-old









6-year-old









7-year-old









8-year-old









9-year-old









10-year-old









11-year-old









12-year-old









13-year-old




See also[edit]

Listen to this article (info/dl)











This audio file was created from a revision of the article "Child" dated 2008-06-24, and does not reflect subsequent edits to the article. (Audio help)
More spoken articles


Child actor
Child singer
Child sexual abuse
Child slavery
Child-selling
Childhood
Childlessness
Children's rights
Index of youth articles
National Children's Study
Outline of children
One-child policy
Religion and children
UNICEF

References[edit]


^ a b c "Child". TheFreeDictionary.com. Retrieved 5 January 2013. 
^ a b "Child". Oxford University Press. Retrieved 5 January 2013. 
^ "For example, the US Social Security department specifically defines an adult child as being over 18". Ssa.gov. Archived from the original on 1 October 2013. Retrieved 9 October 2013. 
^ "American Heritage Dictionary". 7 December 2007. Archived from the original on 29 December 2007. 
^ "Convention on the Rights of the Child" Archived 31 October 2010 at the Wayback Machine. The Policy Press, Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights
^ "CHILDREN AND YOUNG PERSONS ACT". Singapore Statutes Online. Retrieved 20 October 2017. 
^ "Proposal to lower the Age of Contractual Capacity from 21 years to 18 years, and the Civil Law (Amendment) Bill". Singapore: Ministry of Law. Retrieved 21 October 2017. 
^ 8 U.S.C. § 1101(b)(1)
^ See Shorter Oxford English Dictionary 397 (6th ed. 2007), which's first definition is "A fetus; an infant;...". See also ‘The Compact Edition of the Oxford English Dictionary: Complete Text Reproduced Micrographically’, Vol. I (Oxford University Press, Oxford 1971): 396, which defines it as: ‘The unborn or newly born human being; foetus, infant’.
^ . "Essays on childhood". Elizabethi.org. Retrieved 9 October 2013. 
^ "Socialization stages". Childdevelopmentinfo.com. Archived from the original on 28 March 2014. Retrieved 9 October 2013. 
^ "Why Children Need Play | Scholastic". www.scholastic.com. Retrieved 2017-11-16. 
^ "Socialization stages". Childdevelopmentinfo.com. Archived from the original on 28 March 2014. Retrieved 9 October 2013. 
^ Dworzynski, Katharina, et al. "How different are girls and boys above and below the diagnostic threshold for autism spectrum disorders?." Journal of the American Academy of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry 51.8 (2012): 788-797
^ Fikadu Satena. "Juvenile courts". Law.jrank.org. Retrieved 9 October 2013. 
^ Yun, Seira (2014). "Breaking Imaginary Barriers: Obligations of Armed Non-State Actors Under General Human Rights Law – The Case of the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child". Journal of International Humanitarian Legal Studies. 5 (1-2): 213–257. SSRN 2556825 . 
^ Melchiorre, A. (2004) At What Age?...are school-children employed, married and taken to court?
^ a b Infant Mortality Rates in 2012 Archived 14 July 2014 at the Wayback Machine., UNICEF, 2013.
^ W. J. Rorabaugh, Donald T. Critchlow, Paula C. Baker (2004). "America's promise: a concise history of the United States". Rowman & Littlefield. p.47. ISBN 0-7425-1189-8
^ "Modernization - Population Change". Encyclopædia Britannica.
^ "Education | Define Education at Dictionary.com". Dictionary.reference.com. Retrieved 3 August 2014. 
^ ICESCR, Article 13.1
^ "Out-of-School Children Initiative | Basic education and gender equality". UNICEF. Retrieved 3 August 2014. 
^ "BBC News - Unesco: Conflict robs 28 million children of education". Bbc.co.uk. 1 March 2011. Retrieved 3 August 2014. 
^ "UK | Education | Barriers to getting an education". BBC News. 10 April 2006. Retrieved 3 August 2014. 
^ Melik, James (11 October 2012). "BBC News - Africa gold rush lures children out of school". Bbc.com. Retrieved 3 August 2014. 
^ Gallagher, James (2017-01-27). "Girls feel 'less talented' by age six". BBC News. Retrieved 2017-01-27. 
^ "Rachel K. Jones and April Brayfield, Life's greatest joy?: European attitudes toward the centrality of children. Social Forces, Vol. 75, No. 4, Jun 1997. 1,239-69 pp. Chapel Hill, North Carolina". Popindex.princeton.edu. Retrieved 9 October 2013. 
^ "Child brides around the world sold off like cattle". USA Today. 8 March 2013. 
^ Official Journal of the European Union





Wikimedia Commons has media related to Children.





Wikisource has the text of the 1911 Encyclopædia Britannica article Child.








v
t
e


Family






History
Household
Nuclear family
Extended family
Conjugal family
Immediate family
Matrifocal family
Blended family
Dysfunctional family
Polyfidelitous families





First-degree relatives



Parent

Father
Mother


Child

Daughter
Son


Sibling

Brother
Sister







Second-degree relatives



Grandparent
Grandchild
Aunt
Uncle
Nephew and niece





Third-degree relatives



Great-grandparent
Great-grandchild
Grand-nephew and grand-niece
Cousin





Family-in-law



Spouse

Wife
Husband


Parents-in-law
Siblings-in-law





Stepfamily



Stepfather
Stepmother
Stepchild
Stepsibling





Kinship



Adoption
Affinity
Consanguinity
Disownment
Divorce
Estrangement
Fictive kinship
Marriage
Nurture kinship





Lineage



Bilateral descent
Common ancestor
Family name
Family tree
Genealogy
Heirloom
Heredity
Inheritance
Matrilineality
Patrilineality
Pedigree chart
Progenitor





Relationships



Agape (parental love)
Eros (marital love)
Filial piety
Philia (friendly love)
Storge (familial love)





Holidays



Mother's Day

U.S.


Father's Day
Siblings Day
National Grandparents Day
Wedding anniversary





Related



Sociology of the family
Museum of Motherhood












v
t
e


Human biological and psychological development



Before birth



Embryo
Fetus





After birth



Infant
Toddler
Early childhood
Childhood

Child


Preadolescence
Adolescence
Adulthood
Middle age
Old age





Definitions



Minor
Age of majority





Events and phases



Gestational age
Prenatal development
Birth
Child development

stages


Cognitive development of infants
Human development
Adult development
Puberty
Ageing
Senescence
Death





Developmental psychology



Antenatal
Positive youth development
Young adult
Positive adult development
Maturity






Theorists and
theories




Freud (1856–1939) (Psychosexual development)
Piaget (1896–1980) (Theory of cognitive development)
Vygotsky (1896–1934) (Cultural-historical psychology)
Erikson (1902–1994) (Psychosocial development)
Bowlby (1907–1990) (Attachment theory)
Bronfenbrenner (1917–2005) (Ecological systems theory)
Kohlberg (1927–1987) (Stages of moral development)
Commons (b. 1939), Fischer (b. 1943), Kegan (b. 1946), Demetriou (b. 1950), and others (Neo-Piagetian theories of cognitive development)
Evolutionary developmental psychology










 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Child&oldid=812640382"					
Categories: ChildhoodDevelopmental psychologyHumansHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback linksUse dmy dates from May 2016Spoken articlesArticles with hAudio microformats 
