Man - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

This article is about adult human males. For humans in general, see Human. For other uses, see Man (disambiguation).
"Manhood" and "Men" redirect here. For other uses, see Manhood (disambiguation) and Men (disambiguation).




Detail of Michelangelo's The Creation of Adam (circa 1511)




Part of a series on


Masculism




Men
Boys
Masculinity






Movements





Men's movement
Mythopoetic men's movement
Men's liberation movement
Men's rights movement
Fathers' rights movement
Egalitarianism











Topics and issues



Topics




Sex differences in humans
Human male sexuality
Gender equality



(Misandry
Hegemonic masculinity)




Gender roles
Machismo



Men and feminism



(Pro-feminism
Anti-feminism)





Issues





Genital mutilation
Forced circumcision



Rape



(Prison rape
Male rape
False accusation of rape)



Domestic violence (against men)
Violence against LGBT people



(Homophobia
Gay bashing
Transphobia)



Conscription



Reproductive Rights
Paternal rights and abortion
No-fault divorce












By country



Men's rights




India




Fathers' rights





Australia
Italy
United Kingdom
United States












Notable persons





Warren Farrell
Robert Bly











Lists and categories





Index of masculism topics
Category:Men's movement
Category:Men's organizations











See also





Airline sex discrimination policy controversy
Boys are stupid, throw rocks at them! controversy
International Men's Day
Meninism









 Men's rights portal





v
t
e





A man is a male human. The term man is usually reserved for an adult male, with the term boy being the usual term for a male child or adolescent. However, the term man is also sometimes used to identify a male human, regardless of age, as in phrases such as "men's basketball".
Like most other male mammals, a man's genome typically inherits an X chromosome from his mother and a Y chromosome from his father. The male fetus produces larger amounts of androgens and smaller amounts of estrogens than a female fetus. This difference in the relative amounts of these sex steroids is largely responsible for the physiological differences that distinguish men from women. During puberty, hormones which stimulate androgen production result in the development of secondary sexual characteristics, thus exhibiting greater differences between the sexes. However, there are exceptions to the above for some transgender and intersex men.



Contents


1 Etymology
2 Age and terminology
3 Biology and sex

3.1 Sexual characteristics
3.2 Gender
3.3 Reproductive system
3.4 Sex hormones
3.5 Illnesses


4 Masculinity
5 Culture and gender roles

5.1 Exclusively male roles


6 See also
7 References
8 Further reading
9 External links



Etymology
Main article: Man (word)
The English term "man" is derived from a Proto-Indo-European root *man- (see Sanskrit/Avestan manu-, Slavic mǫž "man, male").[1] More directly, the word derives from Old English mann. The Old English form had a default meaning of "adult male" (which was the exclusive meaning of wer), though it could also signify a person of unspecified gender. The closely related Old English pronoun man was used just as it is in Modern German to designate "one" (e. g., in the saying man muss mit den Wölfen heulen).[2] The Old English form is derived from Proto-Germanic *mannz, "human being, person", which is also the etymon of German Mann "man, husband" and man "one" (pronoun), Old Norse maðr, and Gothic manna. According to Tacitus, the mythological progenitor of the Germanic tribes was called Mannus. *Manus in Indo-European mythology was the first man, see Mannus, Manu (Hinduism).
Age and terminology
Main article: Virility
The term manhood is used to describe the period in a human male's life after he has transitioned from boyhood, having passed through puberty, usually having attained male secondary sexual characteristics, and symbolises a male's coming of age. The word man is used to mean any adult male. In English-speaking countries, many other words can also be used to mean an adult male such as guy, dude, buddy, bloke, fellow, chap and sometimes boy or lad. The term manhood is associated with masculinity and virility, which refer to male qualities and male gender roles.
Biology and sex
Main articles: Secondary sexual characteristics and Sex differences in humans
See also: Trans man and Intersexuality
Humans exhibit sexual dimorphism in many characteristics, many of which have no direct link to reproductive ability, although most of these characteristics do have a role in sexual attraction. Most expressions of sexual dimorphism in humans are found in height, weight, and body structure, though there are always examples that do not follow the overall pattern. For example, men tend to be taller than women, but there are many people of both sexes who are in the mid-height range for the species.




Photograph of an adult female human, with an adult male for comparison. Note that both models have partially shaved body hair.


Some examples of male secondary sexual characteristics in humans, those acquired as boys become men or even later in life, are:

more pubic hair
more facial hair
larger hands and feet
broader shoulders and chest
larger skull and bone structure
larger brain mass and volume
greater muscle mass
a more prominent Adam's apple and deeper voice
greater height
a higher tibia:femur ratio (a longer shinbone in comparison to the thighbone)





Leonardo da Vinci's Vitruvian Man displays the proportions of a man.[3]


Sexual characteristics
In mankind, the sex of an individual is generally determined at the time of fertilization by the genetic material carried in the sperm cell. If a sperm cell carrying an X chromosome fertilizes the egg, the offspring will typically be female (XX); if a sperm cell carrying a Y chromosome fertilizes the egg, the offspring will typically be male (XY). Persons whose anatomy or chromosomal makeup differ from this pattern are referred to as intersex.
This is referred to as the XY sex-determination system and is typical of most mammals, but quite a few other sex-determination systems exist, including some that are non-genetic.
The term primary sexual characteristics denotes the kind of gamete the gonad produces: the ovary produces egg cells in the female, and the testis produces sperm cells in the male. The term secondary sexual characteristics denotes all other sexual distinctions that play indirect roles in uniting sperm and eggs. Secondary sexual characteristics include everything from the specialized male and female features of the genital tract, to the brilliant plumage of male birds or facial hair of humans, to behavioral features such as courtship.
Gender
Biological factors are not sufficient determinants of whether a person considers themselves a man or is considered a man. Intersex individuals, who have physical or genetic features considered to be mixed or atypical for one sex or the other, may use other criteria in making a clear determination. There are also transgender and transsexual men, who were assigned as female at birth, but identify as men; there are varying social, legal and individual definitions with regard to these issues. (See transman.)
Reproductive system
Main article: Male reproductive system (human)




Human male reproductive anatomy and surroundings.


The male sex organs are part of the reproductive system, consisting of the penis, testicles, vas deferens, and the prostate gland. The male reproductive system's function is to produce semen which carries sperm and thus genetic information that can unite with an egg within a woman. Since sperm that enters a woman's uterus and then fallopian tubes goes on to fertilize an egg which develops into a fetus or child, the male reproductive system plays no necessary role during the gestation. The concept of fatherhood and family exists in human societies. The study of male reproduction and associated organs is called andrology.




Karyogram of human male using Giemsa staining. Human males typically possess an XY combination.


Sex hormones
In mammals, the hormones that influence sexual differentiation and development are androgens (mainly testosterone), which stimulate later development of the ovary. In the sexually undifferentiated embryo, testosterone stimulates the development of the Wolffian ducts, the penis, and closure of the labioscrotal folds into the scrotum. Another significant hormone in sexual differentiation is the Anti-müllerian hormone, which inhibits development of the Müllerian ducts.

Illnesses
In general, men suffer from many of the same illnesses as women. In comparison to women, men suffer from slightly more illnesses.[citation needed] Male life expectancy is slightly lower than female life expectancy, although the difference has narrowed in recent years.
For males during puberty, testosterone, along with gonadotropins released by the pituitary gland, stimulates spermatogenesis, along with the full sexual distinction of a human male from a human female, while women are acted upon by estrogens and progesterones to produce their sexual distinction from the human male.
Masculinity






The examples and perspective in this article may not represent a worldwide view of the subject. You may improve this article, discuss the issue on the talk page, or create a new article, as appropriate. (December 2010) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)



Main article: Masculinity
See also: Stereotype




Michelangelo's David is the classical image of youthful male beauty in Western art.






A German male model showing a muscular body with sixpack, example of masculinity.


Masculinity has its roots in genetics (see gender).[4][5] Therefore, while masculinity looks different in different cultures, there are common aspects to its definition across cultures.[6] Sometimes gender scholars will use the phrase "hegemonic masculinity" to distinguish the most dominant form of masculinity from other variants. In the mid-twentieth century United States, for example, John Wayne might embody one form of masculinity, while Albert Einstein might be seen as masculine, but not in the same "hegemonic" fashion.
Anthropology has shown that masculinity itself has social status, just like wealth, race and social class. In western culture, for example, greater masculinity usually brings greater social status. Many English words such as virtue and virile (from the Indo-European root vir meaning man) reflect this.[7][8] An association with physical or moral strength is implied. Masculinity is associated more commonly with adult men than with boys.
A great deal is now known about the development of masculine characteristics. The process of sexual differentiation specific to the reproductive system of Homo sapiens produces a female by default. The SRY gene on the Y chromosome, however, interferes with the default process, causing a chain of events that, all things being equal, leads to testes formation, androgen production, and a range of both pre-natal and post-natal hormonal effects covered by the terms masculinization or virilization. Because masculinization redirects biological processes from the default female route, it is more precisely called defeminization.
There is an extensive debate about how children develop gender identities.
In many cultures displaying characteristics not typical to one's gender may become a social problem for the individual. Among men, the exhibition of feminine behavior may be considered a sign of homosexuality, while the same is for a woman who exhibits masculine behavior. Within sociology such labeling and conditioning is known as gender assumptions and is a part of socialization to better match a culture's mores. The corresponding social condemnation of excessive masculinity may be expressed in terms such as "machismo" or "testosterone poisoning."
The relative importance of the roles of socialization and genetics in the development of masculinity continues to be debated. While social conditioning obviously plays a role, it can also be observed that certain aspects of the masculine identity exist in almost all human cultures.
The historical development of gender role is addressed by such fields as behavioral genetics, evolutionary psychology, human ecology and sociobiology. All human cultures seem to encourage the development of gender roles, through literature, costume and song. Some examples of this might include the epics of Homer, the King Arthur tales in English, the normative commentaries of Confucius or biographical studies of Muhammad. More specialized treatments of masculinity may be found in works such as the Bhagavad Gita or bushido's Hagakure.
Culture and gender roles
Main article: Gender role




Pope Emeritus Benedict XVI was the leader of the Roman Catholic Church, a position that is reserved for men only.


Well into prehistoric culture, men are believed to have assumed a variety of social and cultural roles which are likely similar across many groups of humans. In hunter-gatherer societies, men were often if not exclusively responsible for all large game killed, the capture and raising of most or all domesticated animals, the building of permanent shelters, the defense of villages, and other tasks where the male physique and strong spatial-cognition were most useful.[citation needed] Some anthropologists believe that it may have been men who led the Neolithic Revolution and became the first pre-historical ranchers, as a possible result of their intimate knowledge of animal life.[citation needed]
Throughout history, the roles of men have changed greatly. As societies have moved away from agriculture as a primary source of jobs, the emphasis on male physical ability has waned. Traditional gender roles for working men typically involved jobs emphasizing moderate to hard manual labor (see Blue-collar worker), often with no hope for increase in wage or position. For poorer men among the working classes, the need to support their families, especially during periods of industrial change and economic decline, forced them to stay in dangerous jobs working long arduous hours, often without retirement. Many industrialized countries have seen a shift to jobs which are less physically demanding, with a general reduction in the percentage of manual labor needed in the work force (see White-collar worker). The male goal in these circumstances is often of pursuing a quality education and securing a dependable, often office-environment, source of income.




United States Presidents George H. W. Bush, Barack Obama, George W. Bush, Bill Clinton, and Jimmy Carter. While no law reserves the Presidency for men, all United States Presidents have been men thus far.


The Men's Movement is in part a struggle for the recognition of equality of opportunity with women, and for equal rights irrespective of gender, even if special relations and conditions are willingly incurred under the form of partnership involved in marriage. The difficulties of obtaining this recognition are due to the habits and customs recent history has produced. Through a combination of economic changes and the efforts of the feminist movement in recent decades, men in some societies now compete with women for jobs that traditionally excluded women. Some larger corporations have instituted tracking systems to try to ensure that jobs are filled based on merit and not just on traditional gender selection. Assumptions and expectations based on sex roles both benefit and harm men in Western society (as they do women, but in different ways) in the workplace as well as on the topics of education, violence, health care, politics, and fatherhood - to name a few. Research has identified anti-male sexism in some areas which can result in what appear to be unfair advantages given to women.[citation needed]
The Parsons model was used to contrast and illustrate extreme positions on gender roles. Model A describes total separation of male and female roles, while Model B describes the complete dissolution of barriers between gender roles.[9] The examples are based on the context of the culture and infrastructure of the United States. However, these extreme positions are rarely found in reality; actual behavior of individuals is usually somewhere between these poles. The most common 'model' followed in real life in the United States and Great Britain is the 'model of double burden'.[clarification needed]
Exclusively male roles
Some positions and titles are reserved for men only. For example, the position of Pope and Bishop in the Roman Catholic Church. Also the priesthood is exclusively male in the Catholic Church and also some other religious traditions. Men are often given priority for the position of monarch (King in the case of a man) of a country, as it usually passes to the eldest male child upon succession.
See also


Masculinism portal
Human Rights portal
Gender studies portal


Medical:

Sex assignment
Masculine psychology
Men's health
Gender differences

Dynamics:

Male chauvinism
Patriarchy
Sexism
Misandry

Political:

Fathers' rights
Masculism
Men's studies
Men's Rights

References


^ American Heritage Dictionary, Appendix I: Indo-European Roots. man-1 Archived 19 May 2006 at the Wayback Machine.. Accessed 2007-07-22.
^ John Richard Clark Hall: A Concise Anglo-Saxon Dictionary
^ The Vitruvian man
^ John Money, 'The concept of gender identity disorder in childhood and adolescence after 39 years', Journal of Sex and Marital Therapy 20 (1994): 163-77.
^ Laura Stanton and Brenna Maloney, 'The Perception of Pain', Washington Post, 19 December 2006.
^ Donald Brown, Human Universals
^ "Virtue (2009)". Merriam-Webster Online Dictionary. 2009. Retrieved 2009-06-08. 
^ "Virile (2009)". Merriam-Webster Online Dictionary. 2009. Retrieved 2009-06-08. 
^ Brockhaus: Enzyklopädie der Psychologie, 2001.


Further reading

Andrew Perchuk, Simon Watney, bell hooks, The Masculine Masquerade: Masculinity and Representation, MIT Press 1995
Pierre Bourdieu, Masculine Domination, Paperback Edition, Stanford University Press 2001
Robert W. Connell, Masculinities, Cambridge : Polity Press, 1995
Warren Farrell, The Myth of Male Power Berkley Trade, 1993 ISBN 0-425-18144-8
Michael Kimmel (ed.), Robert W. Connell (ed.), Jeff Hearn (ed.), Handbook of Studies on Men and Masculinities, Sage Publications 2004

External links

 The dictionary definition of man at Wiktionary
 Quotations related to Man at Wikiquote
 Media related to Men at Wikimedia Commons







v
t
e


Gender and sexual identities



Gender
identities




Gender



Man
Woman
Male
Female
Androgyne
Bigender
Boi
Cisgender
Cross-dresser
Gender bender
Genderqueer
Gender neutrality
Postgenderism
Gender variance
Pangender
Transgender
Trans man
Trans woman
Transmasculine
Transfeminine
Transsexual
Trigender





Third gender,
third sex



Akava'ine
Bakla
Bissu
Calabai
Eunuch
Fa'afafine
Fakaleiti
Femminiello
Galli
Hijra
Kathoey
Khanith
Köçek
Koekchuch
Māhū
Maknyah
Mukhannathun
Muxe
Nullo
Sworn virgin
Takatāpui
Third gender
Travesti
Tumtum
Two-Spirit
Winkte





Other



Skoptsy








Sexual
orientation,
identities




Gender binary



Asexual
Bisexual
Heterosexual
Homosexual





Non-binary



Ambiphilia, Androphilia, Gynephilia
Pansexuality
Polysexuality
Third gender
Two-Spirit





Other



Antisexuality
Attraction to transgender people
Banjee
Bi-curious
Ex-gay
Ex-ex-gay
Gay
Gray asexuality
Heteroflexible
Lesbian
Kinsey scale
Monosexuality
Non-heterosexual
Queer
Questioning
Polyamorous
Romantic orientation
Same gender loving








See also



Disorders of sex development
Ego-dystonic sexual orientation
Erotic target location error
Gender roles
Hermaphrodite
Human female sexuality
Human male sexuality
Intersex
Sex and gender distinction
Sex assignment
Sex change
Sex reassignment surgery
Sexuality and gender identity-based cultures
Social construction of gender
The NeuroGenderings Network
Violence against women & Men (Gendercide)








Gender studies portal
Sexuality portal
LGBT portal












v
t
e


Masculism






Men
Boys
Masculinity





Concepts



Theory
Gender equality

Gender inequality
Hegemonic masculinity


Men and feminism

Pro-feminism
Anti-feminism


Paper abortion
Manosphere
Gender archaeology
Gender binary
Gender crime
Gender discrimination
Gender equality
Gender history
Gender identity
Gender inequality
Gender mainstreaming
Gender marking in job titles
Gender-neutral language
Gender neutrality in English
Gender performativity
Gender role
Gender roles in Islam
Gender studies
Gendercide
Machismo
Male bonding
Male chauvinism
Male–female income disparity in the United States
Male privilege
Man
Marriage of convenience
Masculine psychology
Masculinity
Men and feminism
Men in nursing
Men's health
Men's shelter
Mythopoetic men's movement
Objectification
Occupational segregation
Occupational sexism
Paper Abortion
Paternal bond
Paternal rights and abortion
Paternalism
Paternity fraud
Patriarchy
Patrilineality
Patrilocal residence
Philandry
Pro-feminism
Reproductive justice
Reproductive rights
Reverse discrimination
Salic law
Sex and the law
Sex differences in crime
Sex differences in humans
Sex in advertising
Sex segregation
Sexism
Sexual harassment
Sexual objectification
Sexual revolution
Sexual violence
Sociology of fatherhood
Sociology of gender
Stay-at-home dad
Tender years doctrine
Testosterone poisoning
Trophy wife
Victorian masculinity
Virility
Womb and vagina envy
Women-only passenger car
Homemaking
Human male sexuality
Human sex ratio
Income inequality in the United States
Initiatives to prevent sexual violence





Movements



Men's movement
Egalitarians
Men's liberation movement
Men's rights movement

in India


Mythopoetic men's movement
Men Going Their Own Way




Fathers' rights movement



By country
Australia
Italy
United Kingdom
United States








Notable persons



Warren Farrell
Robert Bly





Remembrance days



International Men's Day





Issues



Airline sex discrimination policy controversy
Alimony
Androcentrism
Androcracy
Antifeminism
Arranged marriage
Body shape
Boys are stupid, throw rocks at them! controversy
Chauvinism
Conflict tactics scale
Dating abuse
Deadbeat parent
Discrimination
Domestic violence

Domestic violence against men


Dominator culture
Double burden
Economic inequality
Educational attainment in the United States by Sex
Feminist Sex Wars
Forced marriage
Forced circumcision
Rape






 Portal:Masculinism







Authority control



LCCN: sh85083510
GND: 4037363-0
BNF: cb11976108s (data)
NDL: 00561256










 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Man&oldid=809351063"					
Categories: MalesMenGenderSexHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback linksWikipedia indefinitely semi-protected pagesWikipedia indefinitely move-protected pagesAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from September 2008Articles with limited geographic scope from December 2010Articles with unsourced statements from August 2011Articles with unsourced statements from November 2014Wikipedia articles needing clarification from August 2011Use dmy dates from December 2010Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiers 
