Bellum Entertainment Group - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search







This article contains content that is written like an advertisement. Please help improve it by removing promotional content and inappropriate external links, and by adding encyclopedic content written from a neutral point of view. (October 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)




Bellum Entertainment





Type

private Limited liability company


Industry
Television


Founded
2004


Founder
Mary Carole McDonnell[1]


Headquarters
Burbank, California, 
United States



Areas served

International



Key people

President - Mary Carole McDonnell[2]


Products
television production and distribution



Number of employees

11-50 (2013[3])


Website
www.bellument.com


Bellum Entertainment Group (formerly LongNeedle Entertainment) is a Burbank, California-based television production and distribution company currently under investigation by the US Department of Labor.[4]
Bellum develops, produces, and distributes TV projects for broadcast, cable, digital, and ancillary markets. Bellum Entertainment began creating E/I programs in 2004 with the release of Animal Atlas. In 2012, Bellum entered into a deal with Tribune Broadcasting to license a two hour E/I program block and two-weekend series, Unsealed Alien Files and Unsealed Conspiracy Files. Bellum currently produces television programs for broadcast platforms in domestic and international markets.
Bellum is currently under investigation by the United States Department of Labor for worker classification issues and unpaid wages to contractors and analysts appearing on the company's series.[4]



Contents


1 Current productions
2 Previously produced shows
3 Distribution
4 Home entertainment
5 2017 financial issues
6 References



Current productions[edit]

Animal Atlas is produced by Longneedle Entertainment, LLC, a subsidiary of Bellum Entertainment Group. Animal Atlas is an educational wildlife show that "takes children on a tour of discovery, uncovering the secrets of how animals live and thrive. Young viewers meet animals from the familiar to the astounding, and the domesticated to the wild, including the diverse creatures of the African savanna, the finned and flippered of the big deep, and the colorful cast of the equatorial rainforest".[1] Atlas began in 2004 for its first season in national syndication and currently airing in the twelfth season. Animal Atlas is internationally distributed by Cisneros Media Distribution.


Coolest Places On Earth is a broadcast syndicated program airing in the United States from 2013-2017. The Coolest Places on Earth features cities, festivals, landmarks and natural wonders showcasing each location’s history and culture. The program is distributed internationally by Electus.


Corrupt Crimes premiered on September 6, 2015 in national broadcast syndication. Bellum partnered with the Sinclair Broadcast Group to launch Corrupt Crimes domestically on Sinclair stations.[5] The series investigates one or more recent crime stories, with expert analysis and dramatic storytelling. Cases include doping in sports, crimes of passion, wiretapping, espionage, treason, insider trading, government corruption, the black market, piracy, murder, blackmail, conspiracies, and more. Corrupt Crimes launched season two nationally syndicated covering over 86% of the US television market[6] on September 2, 2016. International distribution is managed by Sky Vision, the international division of SKY in the United Kingdom.[7]


Deep Undercover premiered in the United States on October 5, 2016, on Escape. The series is a co-production with Televisa[8] and is distributed in Germany, Austria, and Switzerland by ZDF Enterprises.[9] Deep Undercover is a true crimes series from writer and producer Joseph D. Pistone, the real Donnie Brasco. Each episode tells the story of a different undercover operation from the POV of the undercover officers involved.[10] Cases include all types of organized crime, from the mafia and biker gangs, to international smugglers, cartels, treason, political corruption, white-collar crime, and murder cases.


Murderous Affairs premiered on October 5, 2016 in the United States on the Escape (TV network). The fifty-two episode series explores love affairs gone wrong and spouses driven to kill; stories that give a whole new meaning to the vow, “till death do us part.” [11] Murderous Affairs is distributed internationally by IM Global.[12]


On The Spot is a weekly syndicated trivia show that asks entertaining questions from different categories including people, sports, music, health, food, technology, history, science, arts and entertainment, and culture. The show first aired nationally on September 25, 2011.


Zoo Clues is a 30-minute E/I program that tackles the animal kingdom’s most mind-blowing questions, like these: Can birds fly backwards? Are whales fish? Do dogs sweat? Questions and clues are presented, giving viewers a chance to guess the right answers.

Previously produced shows[edit]

Unsealed Alien and Conspiracy Files is a nationally syndicated program that debuted in September 2012.

Unsealed: Alien Files is a 30-minute program that investigates recently released government documents regarding alien and UFO encounters, made accessible to the public in 2011 by the Freedom of Information Act. Based on the information, Unsealed Alien Files re-examines key evidence and follows developing leads to investigate mass UFO sightings, personal abductions, government cover-ups, and breaking alien news from around the world.
Unsealed: Conspiracy Files investigates the previously top-secret files made public by the Freedom of Information Act. The show re-examines faulty assumptions, searches for inconsistencies, and explores new leads, questioning popular beliefs and arming viewers with information to make their own decisions.

State to State was a broadcast syndicated program set to release for the 2014-2015 season. "State to State", travels to every entertaining nook and cranny of America. The hectic dazzle of the Big Apple. The rawhide spirit of Wyoming. The revival of St. Louis. The innovation of Silicon Valley. The music of New Orleans and Austin. The Vegas Glitz. The La Glamour. The highest peaks. The driest deserts. The biggest events. And the hidden gems.


Safari Tracks is a 30-minute educational wildlife show focusing on African wildlife, comprising 52 episodes and produced in standard definition. Hosted by Benjamin Brown (who previously starred as the title character on the Disney Channel's wildlife documentary series Omba Mokomba) as the South African zoological protector and expert "Ushaka", this television program takes viewers on an African safari each episode- focusing on African wildlife and the magnificent and mysterious world of these animals, all in their natural habitat. It aired on Bounce TV, Antenna TV, Qubo, and international markets.


Wildlife Jams is a half-hour E/I television program focusing on how animals behave and promote awareness and responsibility toward wildlife issues. The 26-episode series takes viewers on an exciting journey through the animal kingdom to discover how animals behave and thrive in their native habitats, all to the soundtrack of critically acclaimed jazz musicians.


Family Style with Chef Jeff was a nationally syndicated show in the US for the 2013-2014 season. Family Style features Chef Jeff Henderson who demonstrates how good choices in the kitchen can lead to a life-changing experience for the whole family. Chef Jeff Henderson is an award-winning chef, best-selling author, and prominent public speaker. Family Style with Chef Jeff currently airs on Bounce TV and international markets.


Now Eat This with Rocco DiSpirito was a nationally syndicated program that debuted on September 15, 2012, starring celebrity chef Rocco DiSpirito. Each episode focuses on an individual or family’s food issues and health. Rocco explains how people can eat what they love but still be healthier by cutting out processed ingredients, bad fats, and empty calories. Rocco arms his guests with the recipes, ingredients and cooking skills necessary to maximize the value and flavor of their favorite meals. The program shares its title with Rocco's best-selling cookbook series and New York-based food truck.


America Now: Bellum Entertainment partnered with ITV Studios and Raycom Media to produce and distribute America Now, a news and lifestyle syndicated strip hosted by Leeza Gibbons and Bill Rancic. America Now was broadcast across the United States from 2010-2014 on stations owned by Raycom Media and was airing via syndication in other markets around the country.


"Fix It and Finish It" was a nationally syndicated program that debuted on September 7, 2014, starring model and soap star Antonio Sabato, Jr.. Sabato, Jr. travels across America transforming lives, one space at a time. At each city, Fix It and Finish It partners with local designers and contractors to renovate a bedroom, family room, kitchen, or outdoor space. Homeowners who are in desperate need of renovation help tell us why they need a specific area in their home makeover.

"Flip My Food with Chef Jeff" was a nationally syndicated program that debuted on September 7, 2014, starring Chef Jeff Henderson. Chef Jeff traveled across the country to flip classic recipes into a healthier dish. In each ½ hour episode Chef Jeff met up with newsmakers, celebrities, and everyday people to “flip” their favorite dishes into dining experiences that taste better, have fewer calories and are fun to cook. This daily series gives viewers the ultimate takeaway, they’ll be able to enjoy their favorite foods more often and feel good about it in the process.
Distribution[edit]
Bellum Entertainment distributes six first-run syndicated series to local broadcast television stations, as well as to pay, cable, broadcast networks, and subscription video-on-demand platforms in the United States. Bellum Entertainment's current catalog contains thirty-nine titles and 2,067 episodes. Bellum partners with international distributors including Sky Vision, Electus, Red Arrow, IM Global, Cisneros Media Distribution, and Cineflix to distribute programs to territories worldwide.
Home entertainment[edit]
In September 2008, LongNeedle partnered with home entertainment distributor NCircle Entertainment to release Animal Atlas on DVD and distribute the show online. Animal Passport, released on December 23, 2008. The fourteen home entertainment titles include Puppy Party, Kitten Party, Pet Party, Animal ABC's, Animal Atlas Family Time, Kitten Party, and Monkeying Around. The most recent release was Pet Party on October 16, 2012. Bellum DVD titles current air on Hulu and Amazon Video and distributed internationally by Canny Minds Ltd.
2017 financial issues[edit]

Bellum is currently being investigated by the U.S. Department of Labor for misclassifying workers as Independent Contractors rather than employees. Robert Lindsey, a DOL investigator, also stated that Bellum is being investigated for missed and-or- late payrolls.[4]
Bellum has had wage claims filed against them by over fifty workers as of Aug of 2017. Many of the cases are currently pending, and possible criminal charges are being considered by the state. Several employees who have won small claims suits over wage theft remain unpaid.[13]

References[edit]



^ Dickens, Andrew (14 August 2014). "McDonnell leaving Raycom for Bellum". C21media. Retrieved 31 October 2017. McDonnell is leaving her position as exec VP of programming at US station group Raycom Media to focus on Bellum Entertainment, the prodco she formed in 2005. 
^ "Mary Carole McDonnell". Variety. Variety Media. 17 December 2013. Retrieved 31 October 2017. 
^ "Bellum Entertainment, Burbank CA - Company Profile | BizStanding". bizstanding.com. Retrieved 31 October 2017. 
^ a b c Robb, David (2017-07-22). "Crime Experts On Bellum Entertainment Shows Halt Work Until Back Wages Are Paid". Deadline. Retrieved 2017-09-22. 
^ "NATPE 2015: Exclusive--Bellum to Launch 'Corrupt Crimes' on Sinclair Stations | Broadcasting & Cable". www.broadcastingcable.com. Retrieved 2016-08-31. 
^ "Bellum Entertainment". Bellum Entertainment. Retrieved 2016-08-31. 
^ Albiniak, Paige. "Bellum to Launch 'Corrupt Crimes' on Sinclair Stations | Broadcasting & Cable". www.broadcastingcable.com. Retrieved 13 July 2016. 
^ "Televisa, Bellum commit to crime copro". C21media. Retrieved 22 September 2017. 
^ "ZDF Enterprises to distribute "Deep Undercover"". Retrieved 22 September 2017. 
^ "ZDF Enterprises acquires exclusive distribution rights to new true crime docuseries "Deep Undercover"". zdf-enterprises.de. 30 June 2016. Retrieved 31 October 2017. Joe Pistone (aka Donnie Brasco) presents exciting details from global undercover operations involving real agents 
^ Pedersen, Erik (11 May 2016). "Katz's Escape Branches Into Original Programming With Five True-Crime Series". Retrieved 22 September 2017. 
^ "IM Global TV brings iSteve to MipTV". C21media. Retrieved 22 September 2017. 
^ Robb, David (2017-07-12). "Bellum Entertainment Workers Face Payroll Delays As TV Production Company Falls Victim To Bank Fraud". Deadline. Retrieved 2017-09-22. 







 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Bellum_Entertainment_Group&oldid=811015850"					
Categories: Television production companies of the United StatesCompanies based in Los AngelesHidden categories: Articles with a promotional tone from October 2017All articles with a promotional tonePages using deprecated image syntax 
