Best Brains - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search


Best Brains

Industry
Entertainment


Founded
1988


Headquarters
Eden Prairie, Minnesota, United States


Products
Television programs, films


Best Brains, Inc. (first known as Hair Brain Productions) is an entertainment company based in Eden Prairie, Minnesota. It is best known for the creation and production of the comedy/sci-fi television program Mystery Science Theater 3000, a.k.a. MST3K (1988–1999). The company ceased producing the program when it was cancelled by Syfy in 1999 and closed its studio. The company then functioned as the holder of the MST3K brand for negotiating home video releases of the show on Shout! Factory and its availability on streaming services like Hulu.
According to Joel Hodgson, the name "Best Brains" came from "...a phrase I found in a magic catalog. It was the old 'Vick Lawston' magic catalog. The copy read something like: 'from some of the Best Brains in the magic business!'"[1]
On November 5, 2007, Jim Mallon and Paul Chaplin of Best Brains revived the MST3K brand by launching a new series of Flash-based animated shorts featuring the robots of Mystery Science Theater 3000 on the official website. The series was ended after several months due to cost issues.
On November 10, 2015, Shout! Factory announced it had purchased MST3K and its associated intellectual property from Best Brains for an undisclosed sum.[2] On the same day, MST3K creator Joel Hodgson announced a crowdsourcing campaign to revive the program.[3]
References[edit]



^ "Enlightening Email from Joel". 2011-05-02. Retrieved 2011-05-14. 
^ Deadline.com
^ Kickstarter



External links[edit]


Minnesota portal
Television portal
Companies portal



Official Site for Mystery Science Theater 3000 and Best Brains, Inc.







v
t
e


Mystery Science Theater 3000



Media



Episodes
Home video
Mystery Science Theater 3000: The Movie
Flash animation series
Clowns in the Sky





Characters




Satellite of Love crew



Joel Robinson
Mike Nelson
Crow T. Robot
Tom Servo
Gypsy
Cambot





"The Mads"



Dr. Clayton Forrester
Dr. Laurence Erhardt
TV's Frank
Pearl Forrester
Professor Bobo
Observer








Related



Best Brains
RiffTrax

List


The Film Crew
Cinematic Titanic
Incognito Cinema Warriors XP

List


Darkstar: The Interactive Movie
The Adventures of Edward the Less
Timmy Big Hands
MSTing









This article about a media company is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.


v
t
e









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Best_Brains&oldid=810346295"					
Categories: Mystery Science Theater 3000Television production companies of the United StatesCompanies based in Eden Prairie, MinnesotaCompanies established in 1988Eden Prairie, Minnesota1988 establishments in MinnesotaMedia company stubsHidden categories: All stub articles 
