Fabergé (cosmetics) - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   (Redirected from Brut Productions)

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search







This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (July 2009) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)



Fabergé (pronounced [fabɛʁʒe]) was a brand of cosmetics manufactured between 1964 and 1984 under the direction of George Barrie. In 1984, McGregor Corporation acquired Fabergé and discontinued many Fabergé products. In 2007, the trademarks, licenses and rights were transferred to Fabergé Limited, in the Cayman Islands, Mark Dunhill became CEO, and it announced an intention to make Fabergé a luxury goods brand.[1]



Contents


1 Samuel Rubin
2 George Barrie
3 McGregor
4 Unilever
5 Fabergé Limited
6 TV commercials
7 Promotion
8 References
9 External links



Samuel Rubin[edit]
The American oil billionaire Armand Hammer collected many Fabergé pieces during his business ventures in communist Russia in the 1920s. In 1937, Armand Hammer’s friend Samuel Rubin, owner of the Spanish Trading Corporation which imported soap and olive oil, closed down his company because of the Spanish Civil War and established a new enterprise to manufacture perfumes and toiletries. He registered it, at Hammer’s suggestion, as Fabergé, Inc. The Fabergé family did not learn about this until after World War II ended. Unable to afford protracted and expensive litigation, in 1951 they settled out of court for US$25,000 ($230,000 today) for the Fabergé name to be used in connection with perfume. Soon, Rubin added cosmetics and toiletries under the Fabergé banner, usually sold in upscale department stores. Fabergé had a high, prestige status, similar to rivals Coty, Guerlain and Elizabeth Arden.
George Barrie[edit]
In 1964, Rubin sold Fabergé Inc. for $26 million to George Barrie and the cosmetics company Rayette. In 1964, Rayette changed its name to Rayette-Fabergé Inc., and, in 1971, the company name was changed back to Fabergé Inc. From 1964 to 1984 under the direction of George Barrie, Fabergé launched many successful cosmetics products and hired celebrities to endorse them. In addition a media division made feature movies.
Mr. Barrie supervised Fabergé's introduction of the popular Brut toiletry line for Fabergé which was promoted by the football players Joe Namath, Paul Gascoigne and Kevin Keegan, as well as the boxer Henry Cooper, and the actress Kelly Le Brock [2] among others. Brut became the best selling cologne in the world at the time.[citation needed]
In 1967 movie star Cary Grant had been appointed a "creative consultant" to Rayette-Fabergé. He spent a year attending sales conventions and visited Fabergé plants around the world. In May 1968, Grant was elected a member of Fabergé's board of directors. He received a salary of $15,000 a year, a rent-paid luxury apartment in New York City (where Fabergé's HQ was located), unlimited travel expenses and the use of the company's private fleet of planes and helicopters. By 1970, Grant divided his time between Los Angeles and New York. He never endorsed specific products or appeared in commercials.
James Bond actor Roger Moore became another celebrity board member in 1970. George Barrie established Fabergé's filmmaking division, Brut Productions, in 1970 and produced the Academy Award-winning movie, A Touch of Class in 1973 and other feature movies.
Barrie launched the Babe fragrance in 1976 which, in its first year, became Fabergé's largest-selling women's fragrance worldwide. The granddaughter of writer Ernest Hemingway, model and actress Margaux Hemingway, received a $1 million contract to promote the perfume Babe by Fabergé in a very popular advertising campaign. Her famous Babe campaign was remembered again by millions after her mysterious death in 1996. Babe received two awards from the Fragrance Foundation for its launch, Most Successful Introduction of a Women's Fragrance in Popular Distribution and Best Advertising Campaign for Women's Fragrance.
In 1977 Barrie launched the Farrah Fawcett hair product and fragrance lines and he signed the actress and star of Charlie's Angels to a promotional contract with Fabergé. A famous Fabergé TV ad featured Joe Namath being shaved by Farrah Fawcett.
By 1984, the company had expanded its personal care products to Aphrodisia, Aqua Net Hair Spray, Babe, Cavale, Brut, Ceramic Nail glaze, Flambeau, Great Skin, Grande Finale, Just Wonderful, Macho, Kiku, Partage, Tip Top Accessories, Tigress, Woodhue, Xandu, Zizanie de Fragonard, Caryl Richards, Farrah Fawcett, and Fabergé Organics.
McGregor[edit]
In 1984, McGregor Corporation, the marketer of Botany 500 clothing, acquired Fabergé and discontinued many Fabergé products. The company launched Mcgregor by Fabergé cologne the same year. New product lines were introduced, including men's, women's, and children's apparel under the trademarks Billy the Kid, Scoreboard, and Wonderknit.
In 1986, Mark Goldston, a specialist in evaluating areas of untapped sales and profit, was named President of Fabergé. He was principally responsible for targeting and acquiring Elizabeth Arden from Eli Lilly and Company.
In 1988 Fabergé acquired Sea & Ski.[3]
Unilever[edit]
Fabergé Inc was acquired by Unilever in 1989 for US$1.55 billion.
In 2001 Lever Fabergé was formed through the merger of Lever Brothers and Elida Fabergé, two long-established Unilever companies. Lever Fabergé today owns hundreds of cosmetics, household, and other brands including Dove, Impulse, Sure, Axe, Organics, Timotei, Signal, Comfort, Domestos, Surf, Sun, and Cif. Unilever removed the Fabergé name from all its products and packaging. Brut is now marketed in Europe by Brut Parfums Prestige.
Fabergé Limited[edit]
On January 3, 2007, Pallinghurst Resources LLP, an investment advisory firm based in London, announced it had acquired Unilever’s entire global portfolio of trademarks, licenses and associated rights relating to the Fabergé brand name for an undisclosed sum. The trademarks, licenses and associated rights were transferred to a newly constituted company, Fabergé Limited, which was registered in the Cayman Islands.
In October 2007 it announced that the company intended to restore Fabergé to its rightful position as the leading purveyor of enduring and endearing personal possessions. Furthermore, it announced the reunification of the Fabergé brand with the Fabergé family with Tatiana Fabergé and Sarah Fabergé, both great-granddaughters of Peter Carl Fabergé, becoming founding members of the Fabergé Heritage Council, a division of Fabergé Limited, which was to offer counsel to the new company. The new owners aim to make Fabergé a luxury goods brand and to sell individually branded Fabergé gemstones with guaranteed provenance and ethical sourcing of the stones. Mark Dunhill became CEO in 2007.[4] The company launched its 'Haute Couture' jewellery collection in 2009.
TV commercials[edit]

Farrah Fawcett Shampoo by Fabergé (1978), #1 at YouTube
Farrah Fawcett Shampoo by Fabergé (1978), #2 at YouTube
Fabergé Organics shampoo "Told two friends" #1 at YouTube
Fabergé Organics shampoo "Told two friends" #2 at YouTube
Fabergé Organics shampoo "Told two friends" #3 Heather Locklear at YouTube
Joe Namath Brut commercial at YouTube
Reggie Jackson and Joe Namath for Brut at YouTube
80s Brut ad at YouTube
Lisa Snowdon Addiction by Fabergé commercial at YouTube
Babe The Farmer's Daughter and Hollywood of GLOW for Fabergé Organics shampoo at YouTube
Margot Hemmingway Babe commercial #1 at YouTube
Margot Hemmingway Babe commercial #2 at YouTube
Babe Australian ad at YouTube
1979 Babe deodorant and splash cologne roller-disco at YouTube
Kathy Smith Babe commercial at YouTube
Fabergé commercial at YouTube

Promotion[edit]
The cologne Brut 33 by Fabergé had a product placement in the 1974 James Bond movie The Man with the Golden Gun. In the fight in the dancer's dressing-room, Roger Moore sprays two of the villains in the face with an aerosol can of what is Brut-33 anti-perspirant, a nod to the Fabergé company with which Moore was associated. [5]
Limited licences to endorse products with the name Fabergé were given to Barbie, Limoges, The Franklin Mint and others.
References[edit]



^ Fabergé Press Release Historic Reunification of Fabergé: Appointment of CEO dated October 10th 2007
^ http://www.highbeam.com/doc/1G1:12276363/Unilever+restages+Brut+for+the+new+man.html?refid=ency_botnm
^ Banana_Boat_Founder_Robert_Bell - Florida International University College of Business. Feb 27, 2008
^ Fabergé Press Release Historic Reunification of Fabergé: Appointment of CEO dated October 10th 2007
^ http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0071807/trivia



External links[edit]

Fabergé Eggs Video at YouTube
Lever Fabergé
Samuel Rubin profile at undueinfluence.com
Fabergé history from About.com
Richard Barrie, Fabergé Inc.
Rayette-Fabergé
Faberge.com (current company)







v
t
e


Cosmetics



Face



Anti-aging cream
BB cream
Botulinum toxin (Botox)
Concealer
Cleanser
Facial
Facial toning
Foundation
Moisturizer
Permanent makeup
Primer
Powder
Rouge
Skin whitening
Toner
Veil
Venetian ceruse





Lips



Lipstick
Balm
Gloss
Liner
Plumper
Stain





Eyes



Blepharoplasty
Circle contact lens
Eyelash extensions
Eyelid glue
Eye liner
Eye shadow
Kohl
Mascara





Hair



Conditioner
Hair coloring and bleaching
Removal

chemical
electric
laser
IPL
plucking
shaving
threading
waxing


Shampoo
Styling products

gel
mousse
pomade
spray
wax







Nails



Artificial nails
Buffing
Manicure
Nail polish
Pedicure





Body



Body powder
Cold cream
Lotion
Cosmetic surgery
Peeling
Skin whitening





Related topics



Cosmetic electrotherapy
Cosmetic ingredients
Cosmetics advertising
Cosmetology
History of cosmetics
Cosmetic industry










Major cosmetic brands






Ahava
Almay
AmorePacific
Anna Sui
Artistry
Aveda
Avon
Bath & Body Works
Benefit
Biotherm
Bobbi Brown
Bonne Bell
Brihans Natural Products
Bumble and bumble
Burt's Bees
Cargo
Carol's Daughter
Clarins
Clinique
Coty
CoverGirl
Creme 21
Cutex
Daigaku Honyaku Center
Elizabeth Arden, Inc.
Estée Lauder
Eyes Lips Face
Etude House
Faberge
Farmec
Garnier
Guerlain
Hard Candy
Helena Rubinstein
Kao Corporation
Kevyn Aucoin
Kiehl's
Lancôme
Laneige
Laura Mercier
Laura Mercier Cosmetics
Lise Watier
L'Oréal
L'occitane
Love Cosmetics
Lush
MAC Cosmetics
Mary Kay
Max Factor
Maybelline
Missha
Molton Brown
NARS
Natura
Natural Wonder
Nature Republic
Neal's Yard Remedies
Neutrogena
Nexxus
Nivea
O Boticário
OPI
Oriflame
Origins
Paula Begoun
Pond's
Red Earth
Revlon
Richard Hudnut
Rimmel
Sephora
Shiseido
Shu Uemura
SimplySiti
SK-II
SkinCeuticals
Skin Food
Stila
The Body Shop
The Face Shop
ULTA Beauty
Ultima II
Urban Decay
Vaseline
Vichy
Victoria's Secret
Wella
Yves Rocher











 Categories
Companies
People
History












v
t
e


Unilever



Subsidiaries




Current



Alberto-Culver
Hindustan Unilever
Maille
Unilever Australasia
Unilever Bangladesh
Unilever Ghana
Unilever Indonesia
Unilever Nepal
Unilever Philippines
Unilever Pakistan





Former



Elizabeth Arden, Inc.
BiFi
Calvin Klein (Fragrances only)
Fabergé
Gorton's of Gloucester
Mac Fisheries
Palm Line
United Africa Company








Brands




Beverages



Brooke Bond
Lipton
PG Tips
Scottish Blend





Food



Becel
Ben & Jerry's
Bertolli (except olive oil and U.S. frozen foods)
Bovril
Colman's
Conimex
Continental
Country Crock
Cup-a-Soup
Flora
Grom
Hellmann's/Best Foods
Hertog
I Can't Believe It's Not Butter!
Imperial Margarine
Kibon
Knorr

Chicken Tonight (Netherlands)


Lady's Choice
Maille
Marmite
Pot Noodle
Pot Rice
Rafhan
Sana
Selecta
Spry
Stork
Talenti
Unox




Heartbrand
Ice Cream
Division



Calippo
Cornetto
GB Glace
Glidat Strauss
HB
Kibon
Kwality Wall's
Langnese
Magnum
Olá
Selecta
Solero
Streets

Golden Gaytime
Paddle Pop


Viennetta
Wall's
HB Wall's
Good Humor-Breyers (Good Humor, Breyers, Klondike, (Choco Taco), Popsicle, Dickie Dee)








Home products



Bio-Tex
Cif
Comfort
Closan
Domestos
Finitex
Lever 2000
Neutral
Omo
Persil (Persil Power & Persil Service) (brand owned by Henkel)
Probat
Rinso (except the United States)
Seventh Generation
Sunlight
Surf (except for North America)





Personal care



Axe/Lynx
Bed Head
Brylcreem
Clear
Close-Up
Degree
Dove
Dollar Shave Club
Faberge
Helene Curtis
Impulse
Lakmé
Lifebuoy
Lux
Mentadent (except for North America)
Noxzema
Pears soap
Pepsodent
Pond's
Prince Matchabelli
Q-tips
Radox
Rexona
Salon Selectives
Signal
Simple
Suave
Sunsilk
Sure
Timotei
TRESemmé
Twink
VO5 (except the United States)
Vaseline
zendium








Predecessors



Lever Brothers
Margarine Unie
W. H. Burford & Son





Places



Colworth House
Lever Brothers Factory
Lever House
Lipton Institute of Tea
Port Sunlight
Unilever House
Unilever Leeds
Unilever Research & Development Port Sunlight Laboratory





People



Antonius Johannes Jurgens
William Lever, 1st Viscount Leverhulme
Paul Polman
Morris Tabaksblat
Samuel van den Bergh
Sidney J. van den Bergh
Simon van den Bergh
Eugenio Minvielle Lagos








 Category
 Commons










 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Fabergé_(cosmetics)&oldid=807757971"					
Categories: Unilever brandsFabergéManufacturing companies established in 1964Manufacturing companies disestablished in 1984Cosmetics brandsHidden categories: Articles needing additional references from July 2009All articles needing additional referencesAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from September 2016 
