FenceSitter Films - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search


FenceSitter Films

Industry
Entertainment


Founded
1995


Headquarters
Los Angeles



Key people

Kyle Schickner


Products
Motion pictures, television programming, new media


Website
www.fencesitterfilms.com


FenceSitter Films is a film production and television production company founded by Kyle Schickner an American film producer, writer, director, actor and a bisexual civil rights activist, devoted to creating entertainment for women, and sexual and ethnic minorities.



Contents


1 History
2 Filmography

2.1 Feature films
2.2 Web series


3 References
4 External links



History[edit]
It was originally formed in 1995 as FenceSitter Productions, but later the name was changed to the current FenceSitter Films. According to the official website, FenceSitter Films was "founded on the belief that films don't need straight white men as heroes in order to be successful and entertaining."[1] Schickner said, "I wanted to make films [that] a person of color, a woman, or a bisexual person would enjoy watching."[2]
The first feature film made in 1997 was the romantic comedy Rose by Any Other Name... and was the film version of Schickner's most successful Off-Off-Broadway play.[3][4]
Additional feature films have included the mockumentary Full Frontal and the critically acclaimed thriller Strange Fruit.[5] The most current feature film, Steam, stars Oscar-nominated actress Ruby Dee, 1980s and indie icon Ally Sheedy as well as up-and-coming young actress Kate Siegel.[6][7]
In late 2008 into 2009 FenceSitter Films began working with an American Cable TV Network to spin-off Rose by Any Other Name... into a weekly TV series. However, according to Schickner "at the 11th hour as they were setting up to shoot the pilot the network expressed concern over how the cutting-edge social theme might play with some of their core viewership and decided to look at more data to see what kind of response the show might get". So with the assistance of American Institute of Bisexuality the project was turned into a Web series with each Webisode being posted on the FenceSitter Films YouTube channel.[8][9]
Filmography[edit]
Feature films[edit]

Steam (2007) (producer, director, writer)[6]
Paradise Lost (2006) (producer, director, writer, actor)
Strange Fruit (2004) (producer, director, writer, actor)[5]
Full Frontal (2001) (executive producer, director, writer, actor)
Rose by Any Other Name... (1997) (producer director, writer, actor)[3]

Web series[edit]

Rose by Any Other Name... (2009) (producer director, writer, actor)[8][9]

References[edit]



^ "FenceSitter Films Official Site". 
^ "Spring 2008" (PDF). 1766 Magazine. Rutgers Alumni Association. Retrieved June 26, 2008. [dead link]
^ a b Szymanski, Michael (July 20, 1997). "MOVIES; Having It Both Ways; If you think there are more bisexuals in films, it's because there are". Los Angeles Times. p. 20. In his "Rose by Any Other Name," due in October, New Jersey filmmaker Kyle Schickner stars as a straight man baffled by the idea of dating a lesbian. 
^ Morris, Morris (July 22, 1998). "MOVIES; Zoom Lens; Bisexual Film Festival". SF Weekly. Saturday's double bill begins with a world premiere, Kyle Schickner's often hilarious indie Rose by Any Other Name ... (1997). 
^ a b Moylah, Brian (July 15, 2005). "A ripe discourse; Black arts festival includes gay films among offerings". Southern Voice. 
^ a b Birchall, Paul (July 9, 2008). "Gays Gone Wild! Quicksilver queers flaunt it at Outfest". LA City Beat. Archived from the original on June 15, 2009. 
^ Francisco, Milalie (November 20, 2006). "Rutgers: Filmmakers cast the spotlight on Rutgers". University Wire. Most recently, former Highland Park resident and Rutgers alumnus Kyle Schickner returned from California to film his independent movie, "Steamroom." Selesky said Schickner filmed at various sites in New Brunswick, including Passion Puddle. 
^ a b "Making our own TV". Bi Media. November 8, 2009. Manchester had Queer As Folk. The USA has The L Word – and there's talk of the BBC having set the cast for a UK equivalent… but it's all pretty much lesbian and gay television. It seems if we want bi telly, we are going to have to make our own. 
^ a b "Rose By Any Other Name". Bi Magazine. November 9, 2009. The web series "Rose By Any Other Name..." is based on Kyle Schickner's first film by the same title. The series follows the main character – Rose – as she tries to come to terms with her feelings for Anthony. 



External links[edit]

FenceSitter Films on IMDb
FenceSitter Films (Main Website)
FenceSitter Films on Facebook
FenceSitter Films Youtube Channel







v
t
e


Bisexuality



Sexual identities



Bisexual
Bicurious
Monosexual
Pansexual
Polysexual





History



History of bisexuality
Bisexuality in the United States
Media portrayals of bisexuality





Study



Innate bisexuality
Journal of Bisexuality
Kinsey scale
Klein grid
Female sexuality
Male sexuality





Attitudes



Biphobia
Bisexual chic
Bisexual erasure
Lesbian until graduation





Community



BiCon (UK)
BiFest
Bisexual pride flag
Bisexual Pride Day
International Conference on Bisexuality
Transcending Boundaries Conference





Organizations



American Institute of Bisexuality
Bay Area Bisexual Network
Bialogue
BiNet USA
Bisexual Resource Center
National Bisexual Liberation Group
New York Area Bisexual Network





Lists



Self-identified bisexual persons
List of bisexuality-related organizations and conferences
List of media portrayals of bisexuality








LGBT portal
Sexuality portal










This article about an American film distributor or production company is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.


v
t
e








This article about a media company is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.


v
t
e









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=FenceSitter_Films&oldid=802976980"					
Categories: Companies established in 1995Film production companies of the United StatesTelevision production companies of the United StatesBisexuality-related mediaAmerican film company stubsMedia company stubsHidden categories: All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from October 2010Use mdy dates from April 2014Pages using infobox company with unsupported parametersAll stub articles 
