Chronicle Live - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

For the British newspaper, see Evening Chronicle.






This article does not cite any sources. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (January 2010) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)



Chronicle Live is a television sports talk show that airs on Comcast Sportsnet Bay Area at 5PM PST/PDT and reairing normally at 11PM on the same network, and midnight on Comcast Sportsnet California. Since its inception it has been hosted by veteran Bay Area sportscaster Greg Papa, well known as being the radio voice of the Oakland Raiders.



Contents


1 History
2 Subjects
3 Regular guests
4 Other

4.1 Substitute hosts
4.2 On the road


5 See also



History[edit]
The show was announced in February 2009, as part of a revamping of the CSN Bay Area lineup. Previously, the channel (then Fox Sports Net Bay Area) was mainly just for airing local sports telecasts and FSN original programming. When the channel was re-launched in April 2008 as CSN Bay Area, plans were announced to have a news show for all Bay Area sports. It was then announced that sports talk show would premiere as well, and would be hosted by Greg Papa. The show is named for the San Francisco Chronicle newspaper, as the show's panel is composed primarily of columnists from the Chronicle. However, writers from the MediaNews Group (mainly the San Jose Mercury News, Oakland Tribune and Contra Costa Times) and the Sacramento Bee also frequent the show.
The show premiered on April 6, 2009 along with the news show (Sportsnet Central). Like the launch of CSN Bay Area itself a year earlier, this was intentionally set at the same time as the start of the baseball season. The show is thought to be the first of its kind in the Bay Area.
Subjects[edit]
Half of the show's purpose is to discuss Bay Area news and results of the main pro and college teams. For example, in the first month, topics such as the start of the season for the San Francisco Giants and Oakland Athletics baseball teams, the playoff run for the San Jose Sharks and the conclusion of the season for the Golden State Warriors were discussed. The later half of 2009 was mostly dominated by the San Francisco 49ers and Oakland Raiders. The other half of the show's purpose is to interview a large variety of Bay Area sports personalities. Often this will be coaches and players of teams currently playing. All of the main pro teams (The Giants, A's, Sharks, Warriors, Raiders and 49ers) have been represented, as well as UC Berkeley, Stanford, San Jose State and other local college teams for various sports.
Regular guests[edit]

Cam Inman - Contra Costa Times columnist
Tim Kawakami - San Jose Mercury News columnist
Ann Killion - csnbayarea.com columnist
Monte Poole - Oakland Tribune columnist
Mark Purdy - San Jose Mercury News columnist
Ray Ratto - CSN Bay Area Senior Insider
Scott Ostler - San Francisco Chronicle columnist
Damon Bruce - KNBR 1050 radio host
Roxy Bernstein - Sports Byline USA radio host
Al Saracevic - San Francisco Chronicle columnist and editor

Other[edit]
Substitute hosts[edit]
When Greg Papa had a scheduling conflict (such as a Raiders game) or was on vacation, notable fill-in hosts include:

Dave Benz - Sportsnet Central co-host
Jim Kozimor - Comcast Sportsnet contributor
Gary Radnich - Bay Area sports radio host
Barry Tompkins - Pac-10 play-by-play caller for Fox Sports Net

On the road[edit]
Chronicle Live is typically filmed in the CSN Bay Area's studios in San Francisco but the show has moved to other sites for special events. These include:

AT&T Park - During the Bay Bridge Series in San Francisco.
Oakland Coliseum - During the Bay Bridge Series in Oakland.
HP Pavilion - For the San Jose Sharks' home opener for the 2009-2010 season.
Stanford Stadium - Filmed the day before the 2009 Big Game between Stanford and Cal.
Haas Pavilion (UC Berkeley) - Filmed prior to the men's basketball game between Cal and Oregon, the television play-by-play being handled by Greg Papa.

During these specials, the guests would almost exclusively be related to the team hosting the event, or related to the event itself.
See also[edit]

CSN Bay Area





 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Chronicle_Live&oldid=785599385"					
Categories: Television shows set in the United StatesHidden categories: Articles lacking sources from January 2010All articles lacking sources 
