Jonny Zero - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Jonny Zero


Genre
Action
Crime drama


Created by
Ken Sanzel
R. Scott Gemmill


Starring
Franky G
GQ
Brennan Hesser


Composer(s)
John McCarthy


Country of origin
United States


Original language(s)
English


No. of seasons
1


No. of episodes
13


Production


Executive producer(s)
John Wells
Llewellyn Wells
R. Scott Gemmill
Mimi Leder


Location(s)
New York


Running time
42 minutes


Production company(s)
John Wells Productions
Warner Bros. Television


Release


Original network
Fox


Original release
January 14 (2005-01-14) – March 4, 2005 (2005-03-04)


Jonny Zero is an American action-crime drama television series that aired on the Fox network in 2005. It starred Franky G, GQ, and Brennan Hesser. It was cancelled after eight episodes.[1]



Contents


1 Plot
2 Cast

2.1 Main cast
2.2 Recurring cast


3 Episodes
4 References
5 External links



Plot[edit]
Jonny Calvo (Franky G) served four years in Sing-Sing Prison for killing a man. After release, he is determined to stay out of the criminal life; however his old boss, Garrett (Ritchie Coster), tries to lure him back to crime. FBI Agent Stringer (Chris Bauer) wants Jonny to be his informant so he can arrest Garrett on numerous criminal charges.
Upon his release from prison, Jonny tries to prove to his ex-wife and son that he is reliable, but his past catches up with him, causing him to have minimal contact with them. His parole officer, Gloria (Aunjanue Ellis), orders Jonny to find a job upon his release and soon Jonny ends up mopping floors at Captain Jack's, a pirate-themed restaurant for children. He soon meets another employee who calls himself, Random (GQ). The two soon become friends and Jonny decides that he will use his street smarts to help other people in need by starting his own private eye business. Random follows suit and allows Jonny to stay at his apartment. However, being a small private business, the money from clients is minimal and Jonny reluctantly decides to work for Garrett again, but making sure that crime will play no part in getting him thrown back in prison.
Jonny is soon sought after by a father looking for his daughter, Danni a.k.a. "Velvet" (Brennan Hesser) who works at strip joints and goth clubs. After much complications, she stops working at clubs and forms a friendship with Jonny and Random.
The series concentrates on Jonny trying to redeem himself by helping other people in need, staying away from crime and proving to his ex-wife and son that he has changed.[2]
Cast[edit]
Main cast[edit]

Franky G as Jonny Calvo
GQ as Random
Brennan Hesser as Danni "Velvet" Stiles

Recurring cast[edit]

Ritchie Coster as Garrett
Chris Bauer as Agent Stringer
Aunjanue Ellis as Gloria
Tawny Cypress as Nina Edwards
Sean Moran as Vincent Calvo
Samuel E. Wright as Jericho
Susan Misner as Eeve
Anthony Desio as Tull
R.E. Rodgers as Niko
Peta Wilson as Aly
Myron Primes as Joey

Episodes[edit]
Fox aired only eight of the thirteen episodes, but during the show's run, the episodes were aired out of order causing continuity errors. Fox canceled the series due to poor ratings as the show was put on the Friday night death slot.


No.
Title
Directed by
Written by
Original air date
Prod.
code


1
"Pilot"
Mimi Leder
R. Scott Gemmill
January 14, 2005 (2005-01-14)
JZ-101


Jonny Calvo did four years for killing a man. Now he's out but without a job or a place to live. His parole officer, Gloria, orders him to get a job but his new job consists of mopping floors at Captain Jack's restaurant, a pirate themed children's restaurant. He meets another employee by the name of Random and the two become good friends. Jonny decides he will use his street skills to help other people who need it and starts a private eye business. One night he befriends a man, Martin Styles, who is looking for his runaway daughter, Danni. Jonny agrees to help this man find his daughter, but when he goes to report back to Styles, he finds him being assaulted by a thug. Subsequently, Danni is kidnapped and it is up to Jonny to find her and pass on her father's dying wish. Meanwhile, Special Agent Stringer informs Jonny that he has walked into the middle of a Mob war.


2
"No Good Deed"
David Von Ancken
David Weinstein
January 21, 2005 (2005-01-21)
JZ-105


Jonny asks a tough guy in prison to watch out of a young man that's going in. The tough asks for a favor and Jonny has to dig up some money and give it to his ex-partner, ex-wife and ex-girlfriend. All hell breaks loose when Jonny tries to finish the mission as the tough's exs seem to want nothing to do with him.


3
"La Familia"
Félix Enríquez Alcalá
R. Scott Gemmill
January 28, 2005 (2005-01-28)
JZ-106


Jonny helps a young girl, named Sal, learn how to box while at the same time trying to keep her from gang life. The boxing training allows Sal to make a difference with her life but when she learns the rival gangs have injured her sister, she makes decides to get revenge and Jonny must stop her before she throws her life away.


4
"Who's Your Daddy?"
Mimi Leder
R. Scott Gemmill
February 4, 2005 (2005-02-04)
JZ-102


One of Velvet's friend baby has been stolen. Jonny goes to steal it back but turns out to be the wrong baby. Jonny also uncovers a black-market baby ring.


5
"I Did It All for the Nooky"
Mimi Leder
Virgil Williams
February 11, 2005 (2005-02-11)
JZ-104


A music-bizz mystery occupies Jonny, who probes a drive-by shooting involving a volatile rapper with a secret past and his famous fiance, who hires Jonny as a bodyguard.


6
"Bounty"
Tawnia McKiernan
Terri Hughes Burton & Ron Milbauer
February 18, 2005 (2005-02-18)
JZ-107


A man who's been convicted of insider trading, skips bail in order to see his pregnant wife give birth. As a bounty hunter searches for the father, Jonny is hired to keep the hunter busy until the birth.


7
"Lost and Found"
Mimi Leder
David Weinstein
February 25, 2005 (2005-02-25)
JZ-108


Jonny is tricked into tracking down a former Mafia soldier turned federal witness; Stringer turns up the heat on Jonny, wanting him to get in deeper with Garret and making Jonny fear a return to his old ways.


8
"To Serve and Protect"
Lesli Linka Glatter
R. Scott Gemmill
March 4, 2005 (2005-03-04)
JZ-109


Jonny's parole officer, Gloria, asks for help when her husband is killed in the line of duty. Jonny gets into trouble that might send him back to jail while also trying to help Eve with her drug problem.


9
"Diamonds & Guns"
Henry Bronchtein
Terri Hughes Burton & Ron Milbauer
Unaired
JZ-110


Jonny partners with his bounty hunter friend Aly, for what he thinks will be a quick and easy stakeout to recover a stolen ice cream truck. Nothing is what it seems as Jonny will get more than just ice cream.


10
"Man Up"
Charles Haid
R. Scott Gemmill
Unaired
JZ-103


As Jonny tries to get his life back to normal, he visits his son and gets a legitimate job at a gym. Meanwhile, Random and Velvet are hired to work at a bar mitzvah, where a gang steal everybody's belongings. The boy having the bar mitzvah, Seth, asks for Jonny's help to retrieve the stolen goods.


11
"Sins of the Father"
Félix Enríquez Alcalá
Virgil Williams
Unaired
JZ-111


Jonny discovers that his father was robbed and hospitalized. He furiously tracks down the culprits but can he restrain himself in order to avoid violating his parole?


12
"Wired"
Llewellyn Wells
Mere Smith
Unaired
JZ-112


FBI agents force Jonny to take part in a sting operation. The federal agents want him to record his former boss making a deal with the militia leaders.


13
"Betrayal"
Jean de Segonzac
R. Scott Gemmill
Unaired
JZ-113


Jonny must navigate his way through a complex scheme to bring down his former boss.


References[edit]



^ Sullivan, Brian Ford (March 8, 2005). "FOX Puts 'Jonny Zero' on the Bench". The Futon Critic. Retrieved October 14, 2015. 
^ Fuchs, Cynthia (January 20, 2005). "Jonny Zero". PopMatters. Retrieved October 14, 2015. 



External links[edit]

Jonny Zero at EPisodeWorld
Jonny Zero on IMDb
Jonny Zero at TV.com





 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Jonny_Zero&oldid=790140548"					
Categories: American action television seriesAmerican crime drama television seriesFox network showsTelevision shows set in the United States2000s American drama television series2005 American television series debuts2005 American television series endings 
