Starstuff - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Starstuff



Title card



Genre
Science fiction
Children


Written by
Dorothy Louise
Don Matticks


Directed by
Don Matticks


Starring
Todd Porter
Johanna Hickey


Voices of
Mark Ritts


Theme music composer
Gustav Holst


Opening theme
The Planets


Country of origin
United States


Original language(s)
English


No. of seasons
1


No. of episodes
18


Production


Executive producer(s)
Inez Gottlieb


Editor(s)
Frances Harty


Running time
60 minutes


Production company(s)
CBS-TV


Release


Original network
WCAU-TV


First shown in
1980


Starstuff is an hour-long children's television program taped at WCAU-TV Studios on City Line Avenue in Bala Cynwyd, Pennsylvania. It was shown in the Philadelphia television market only. There was only one season of Starstuff with a total of 18 episodes airing on Saturday mornings. While it was first shown in 1980, it was rerun repeatedly throughout the next several years. The opening and closing music consisted of a melange of music from Gustav Holst's The Planets suite, movements four and six, Jupiter and Uranus.[1][2]



Contents


1 Format
2 Starstuff Cast
3 Starstuff Staff
4 The Edge Of Space Staff
5 References
6 External links



Format[edit]
Starstuff centered around a boy named Chris (Todd Porter) and a girl named Ingrid (Johanna Hickey). Chris lived in the present while Ingrid lived in the future on a space colony. Chris's television set was able to pick up video transmission from Ingrid's spaceship and they were able to communicate, often showing each other clips from Laurel and Hardy's Laughtunes as well as snippets of the educational children's news show, Kidsworld.
There was a sub-show within Starstuff titled The Edge Of Space, and was generally the second-to-last segment in the show. Lasting approximately 10 minutes, it was a space-based puppet segment starring Krikles, Zornad, and their robot assistant, Giz, as they explored the universe in their spaceship searching for life.
From puppeteer Mark Ritts: I taped the puppet bits separately, perhaps a half dozen at a time, on a day when the main cast was off learning their lines. So I don't remember even meeting them ... Krikles's voice was a simple, light character voice that I have used years, variously adapted, for a string of characters, including Storytime's "Kino" (PBS). Zornad's voice was a bit of a steal from a favorite comic of mine who used to be a regular on the old Steve Allen Show—Dayton Allen, whose signature line was "Whyyyyy not??!"
In addition, within the hour-long show was a half-hour CBS network children's program inserted. Starstuff would run about 10 to 20 minutes followed by the 30 minute CBS show and then the conclusion of Starstuff. Captain Noah on competing WPVI did something similar with some ABC Saturday morning children's shows.
Starstuff Cast[edit]

Chris: Todd Porter
Ingrid: Johanna Hickey
Aunt Val: Margaret Hunt
Uncle Pete: Johnnie Hobbs
Chris' Mom: Elowyn Castle
Ingrid's Dad: Gary Silow

Starstuff Staff[edit]

Writer: Dorothy Louise
Director: Don Matticks
Executive Producer: Inez Gottlieb
Associate Producer: Suzanne Hansberry
Production Assistant: Nan Gilbert
Set Design: John Ferlaine
Set Construction: Chuck Wells
Lighting Director: Al Vanaman
Videotape: Pat Lynch
Field Camera: Phil Carroll
Technical Director: Charles Cleveland
Camera: Art Pitcairn, Pete Cain, Jim Manning, Irv Gubin, Joe Sidlo
Audio: David Bowa
Video: Bill Wagner, Ted Vawter, Al Strelau, Dan Falzani
Floor Managers: Jess L. Schooley, Raymond Fiedler, William Cawley
Field Audio: George Schumaker
Editing: Frances Harty

The Edge Of Space Staff[edit]

Writer: Don Matticks
Puppeteer: Mark Ritts
Puppet Design: Eli Bauer
Puppets Built By: Kathy Rogers

References[edit]



^ Emmett Plant (December 19, 2009). "Sci-Fi Rewind: Memories of 'Starstuff'". io9.com. Retrieved January 16, 2013. 
^ WCAU-TV (July 9, 1980). "Starstuff Episode #11 – Tape No. 417-60P". CBS-TV. Retrieved January 16, 2013. 



External links[edit]

Starstuff on IMDb
Site about Starstuff, by Matt Styx





 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Starstuff&oldid=715970015"					
Categories: Television shows set in the United StatesHidden categories: Pages using deprecated image syntaxPages using infobox television with editor parameter 
