Take the Money and Run (TV series) - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Take the Money and Run





Also known as
'The Run'


Genre
Reality competition


Created by
Matthew Worthy, Kieran Doherty


Developed by
Bertram van Munster
Elise Doganieri
Philip Morrow


Directed by
Bertram van Munster


Presented by
Zen Gesner


Starring
Paul Bishop
Mary Hanlon-Stone


Narrated by
Bray Poor


Theme music composer
David Vanacore


Composer(s)
David Vanacore


Country of origin
United States


Original language(s)
English


No. of seasons
1


No. of episodes
6 (list of episodes)


Production


Executive producer(s)
Jerry Bruckheimer
Bertram van Munster
Jonathan Littman
Elise Doganieri
Philip Morrow


Producer(s)
Profiles Television Productions


Editor(s)
Eric Beetner


Production company(s)
Profiles Television Productions
Jerry Bruckheimer Television


Distributor
Horizon Alternative Television


Release


Original network
ABC


Picture format
480i (SDTV)
720p (HDTV)


Original release
August 2 (2011-08-02) – September 6, 2011 (2011-09-06)


Chronology


Related shows
The Amazing Race


Take the Money and Run is a reality game show that premiered on August 2, 2011 as part of the ABC network's 2011–12 primetime schedule. The series is unscripted and involves contestants trying to hide a briefcase filled with $100,000 from professional detectives and other investigators. The show takes place in various locales around the United States.[1] The series ended with its sixth and final episode on September 6, 2011.
The contestants are loaned an SUV and a cellular phone, and are given one hour to hide the case. At the end of the hour, the contestants are taken into custody and questioned by interrogators in an attempt to locate the case. The contestants are also isolated from each other for the duration of the 48 hours. The detectives are given the GPS recordings of the route that the contestants took in the SUV, telephone records of who they called, and all receipts. If the detectives can locate the case within 48 hours, they are awarded the $100,000. If not, the contestants win the prize.
The producers are Profiles Television and Jerry Bruckheimer Television. Horizon Alternative Television is the distributor in the United States. The executive producers are Jerry Bruckheimer, Bertram van Munster, Jonathan Littman, Elise Doganieri and Philip Morrow. Kristie Anne Reed and Mark Dziak are co-executive producers.[1] The show was written by Philip Morrow, Kieran Doherty, and Matthew Worthy of Wild Rover Productions.[2][3] The show has not revealed yet whether a second season will appear. The recurring cast includes the interrogators: Paul Bishop and Mary Hanlon Stone.[4] Bishop is a writer and LAPD detective. He has published many books and written many episodes for television.[5] He is currently the supervisor of a sex crimes unit.[6] Stone is a deputy district attorney with the office of the Los Angeles County District Attorney.[7]
Episodes[edit]


No.
Title
Original air date


1
"Oh Brother!"
August 2, 2011 (2011-08-02)


Two San Francisco brothers hide the money.
Location Hid: Lafayette Park
Result: Found with 18 hours remaining after one of the brothers decides to reveal the case's location. In the episode, the interrogators separated and interrogated whom they felt was "follower", and convinced him that he didn't really want to be there.


2
"BAM! Did I Scare You?"
August 9, 2011 (2011-08-09)


A Miami couple hide the money.
Location Hid: Robert's House on Miami Beach
Result: Not Found


3
"South Beach Sisters"
August 16, 2011 (2011-08-16)


Miami sisters hide the money.
Location Hid: Bushes near Banyan Trail in Miami
Result: Found with 22 hours remaining because the detectives used metal detectors and flexible prodding poles to search through the underbrush in an area the sisters' GPS route made to appear conspicuous.


4
"Who's Playing Whom?"
August 23, 2011 (2011-08-23)


Chicago domestic partners hide the briefcase.
Location Hid: At a friend's house in the northern portion of Chicago
Result: Found with 18 hours remaining when a contestant quits under intense pressure. In this episode, the contestant was never permitted to leave his cell, not even to go to the interrogation room. He finally broke when the interrogators took his book leaving him absolutely nothing to do with the long hours. He had already openly complained he couldn't sleep due to the lights never turning off, and he did not eat any of the food provided.


5
"Just Between You and Me"
August 30, 2011 (2011-08-30)


A San Francisco father and daughter hide the money.
Location Hid: At a former business partner's office in middle of SF.
Result: Found relatively early after the Mary interrogated the father for a few hours about seemingly unrelated topics. The father began to tell his own life story, and inadvertently gave up his relationship with his former business partner. The interrogators immediately recognized that the partner's office was right along the GPS route. While the specific time isn't given in the episode, it can be inferred the case was found the first day before night fell.


6
"No! No! No! Yes! Yes! Yes!"
September 6, 2011 (2011-09-06)


A Chicago couple hide the money.
Location Hid: Lincoln Park near Zoo in a brush patch.
Result: Not Found.


Reception[edit]
The show has received mixed reviews from critics, with Metacritic scoring it a 56 out of 100.[8]
References[edit]



^ a b "The Hunt Is On When Abc Premieres Take The Money And Run, Tuesday, August 2" (Press release). ABC Television Network. May 16, 2011. Retrieved June 29, 2011. 
^ First look at Wild Rover's Take the Money and Run, Northern Ireland Screen
^ Take the Money and Run, Imdb
^ ABC Television Network, Show Description, Take the Money and Run
^ Paul Bishop Author's page at Amazon
^ ABC Television Network, Show Description, Paul Bishop Biography
^ ABC Television Network, Show Description, Mary Hanlon Stone Biography
^ Take the Money and Run Metacritic.









v
t
e


Television media produced by Bertram van Munster






The Amazing Race (2001–present)
The Quest (2014)
The Great Escape (2012)
Take the Money and Run (2011)
Oprah's Big Give (2007)










 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Take_the_Money_and_Run_(TV_series)&oldid=809811945"					
Categories: 2010s American television series2011 American television series debuts2011 American television series endingsAmerican Broadcasting Company network showsAmerican game showsEnglish-language television programsAmerican reality television seriesTelevision series by Warner Bros. TelevisionTelevision shows set in the United StatesHidden categories: Pages using deprecated image syntaxPages using infobox television with editor parameterEpisode list using the default LineColor 
