Broadcasting Archives at the University of Maryland - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search





Students, scholars and broadcast professionals may study a wealth of material and artifacts at the Broadcasting Archives.


The Broadcasting Archives at the University of Maryland is home to several collections – the National Public Broadcasting Archives and the Library of American Broadcasting among them – housed together on the campus of the University of Maryland in College Park. Among the other holdings is the unusual Art Gliner Humor Collection, since humor plays such an important part in the history of radio and television programming.
Douglas Gomery, professor emeritus at Maryland's Philip Merrill College of Journalism, is Resident Scholar at the Archives. He donated his papers and some 5,000 books to the Broadcasting Archives when he retired from teaching in 2005. Gomery served on the committee that put the Broadcasting Archives in place, and considers the Archives the proudest achievement of his 25-year career at Maryland. He describes the collection as one of the top five research collections for the study of radio and television in the United States.[1]
Other scholars who have donated their libraries and papers to the Broadcasting Archives include John M. Kittross and Christopher H. Sterling. The Archives also holds extensive books and papers from the National Association of Broadcasters and is actively growing its collection of materials concerning broadcast media in Washington, D.C. (The Pick Temple collection -- from the popular 1950s children's show on WTOP -- is currently being accessioned.)
The Broadcasting Archives is located in Hornbake Library on the campus of the University of Maryland in College Park, just off the northeast corner of Washington, D.C. The Broadcasting Archives is a unit of the Archives and Manuscripts Department of the Collection Management and Special Collections Division, University of Maryland Libraries.
References[edit]



^ "Treasure on Hornbake's Third Floor". Faculty Voice. April 29, 2010. Archived from the original on April 25, 2012. Retrieved October 18, 2011. 









v
t
e


University of Maryland, College Park




Located in: College Park, Maryland



Academics



A. James Clark School of Engineering
College of Agriculture and Natural Resources
School of Architecture, Planning, and Preservation
College of Arts and Humanities
College of Behavioral and Social Sciences
College of Computer, Mathematical, and Natural Sciences
College of Education
College of Information Studies
Philip Merrill College of Journalism
Robert H. Smith School of Business
School of Music
School of Public Health
School of Public Policy
QUEST Honors Fellows
College Park Scholars
Honors College








Athletics



Teams
Baseball
Field hockey
Football
Men's basketball
Men's lacrosse
Men's soccer
Women's basketball
Women's lacrosse
Women's volleyball


Facilities
Xfinity Center
Maryland Stadium
Cole Field House
Shipley Field
Ludwig Field
Golf Course
Taylor Stadium
Ritchie Coliseum
Old Byrd Stadium


Rivalries
Duke
Johns Hopkins
Navy
Penn State
Virginia
West Virginia


University of Maryland Athletic Hall of Fame
Midnight Madness





Campus



Landmarks
Adele H. Stamp Student Union
"M" Circle
McKeldin Mall
Memorial Chapel
Morrill Hall
The Rossborough Inn


Arts and recreation
Arboretum & Botanical Garden
The Art Gallery
Clarice Smith Performing Arts Center
Observatory
Tawes Theatre


Facilities
Libraries
Security Operations Center


Transportation
Shuttle-UM
College Park–University of Maryland Station





People



Alumni
Faculty
Benefactors
Presidents





Student life



Student groups
List of student organizations
Greek life
Mighty Sound of Maryland
Monarchy Party
Media
Capital News Service
The Diamondback
UMTV
WMUC-FM








Founded: 1856






Coordinates: 38°59′17″N 76°56′30″W﻿ / ﻿38.988123°N 76.941617°W﻿ / 38.988123; -76.941617




 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Broadcasting_Archives_at_the_University_of_Maryland&oldid=792391032"					
Categories: University of Maryland, College ParkHistory of broadcastingLibraries in Washington, D.C.Archives in the United StatesTelevision archives in the United StatesHidden categories: Coordinates not on Wikidata 
