National Public Broadcasting Archives - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

The National Public Broadcasting Archives (NPBA) – housed as part of the Broadcasting Archives at the University of Maryland – preserves the history of American non-commercial broadcasting materials. It is housed at the University of Maryland, College Park in Hornbake Library. NPBA serves as a living reminder of the cultural and intellectual continuity of the effort to make television something more than commercial networks can provide. Its mission is to work with the primary national entities of American noncommercial broadcasting to identify records and programs of historical value and to serve as a repository for those materials. Its collection is open to the public.
NPBA was initiated by educator and former PBS board member Donald R McNeil (1923-1996). Citing the language of the Public Broadcasting Act of 1967 that the primary entities of public broadcasting will "establish and maintain a library and archives of non-commercial educational television and radio programs and related materials," McNeil convinced the chief officers of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, the Public Broadcasting Service, National Public Radio and the Association of America's Public Television Stations to launch a cooperative effort to gather in one place the historical record of American public broadcasting. The University of Maryland Libraries agreed to serve as the academic host for the effort and the Archives was officially inaugurated June 1, 1990.
NPBA maintains the archival record of key public broadcasting agencies such as the Corporation for Public Broadcasting (CPB), National Public Radio (NPR), Public Broadcasting Service (PBS), Children's Television Workshop (CTW) as well as important program materials from stations WAMU 88.5 FM, WETA and Maryland Public Television. The NPBA includes the NPR News Programming Collection.[1] NPBA also maintains the personal papers of over 120 individuals who were associated with public radio or television during the course of their careers.
NPBA continues to grow and develop with the regular transfer of participants' records to its storage areas. The Archives also seeks new collections from other organizations and individuals associated with public broadcasting. To enhance its holdings the Archives welcomes additional correspondence, memoranda, reports, meeting minutes and daily logs or journals; photographs, films, audio/videotapes, kinescopes, graphic materials, scrapbooks, journals and magazines.
See also[edit]

American Archive of Public Broadcasting

References[edit]


^ Press release


External links[edit]

"About Us: National Public Broadcasting Archives". University of Maryland Libraries. Retrieved 5 September 2013. 

Coordinates: 38°59′17.5″N 76°56′29.5″W﻿ / ﻿38.988194°N 76.941528°W﻿ / 38.988194; -76.941528






v
t
e


University of Maryland, College Park




Located in: College Park, Maryland



Academics



A. James Clark School of Engineering
College of Agriculture and Natural Resources
School of Architecture, Planning, and Preservation
College of Arts and Humanities
College of Behavioral and Social Sciences
College of Computer, Mathematical, and Natural Sciences
College of Education
College of Information Studies
Philip Merrill College of Journalism
Robert H. Smith School of Business
School of Music
School of Public Health
School of Public Policy
QUEST Honors Fellows
College Park Scholars
Honors College








Athletics



Teams
Baseball
Field hockey
Football
Men's basketball
Men's lacrosse
Men's soccer
Women's basketball
Women's lacrosse
Women's volleyball


Facilities
Xfinity Center
Maryland Stadium
Cole Field House
Shipley Field
Ludwig Field
Golf Course
Taylor Stadium
Ritchie Coliseum
Old Byrd Stadium


Rivalries
Duke
Johns Hopkins
Navy
Penn State
Virginia
West Virginia


University of Maryland Athletic Hall of Fame
Midnight Madness





Campus



Landmarks
Adele H. Stamp Student Union
"M" Circle
McKeldin Mall
Memorial Chapel
Morrill Hall
The Rossborough Inn


Arts and recreation
Arboretum & Botanical Garden
The Art Gallery
Clarice Smith Performing Arts Center
Observatory
Tawes Theatre


Facilities
Libraries
Security Operations Center


Transportation
Shuttle-UM
College Park–University of Maryland Station





People



Alumni
Faculty
Benefactors
Presidents





Student life



Student groups
List of student organizations
Greek life
Mighty Sound of Maryland
Monarchy Party
Media
Capital News Service
The Diamondback
UMTV
WMUC-FM








Founded: 1856










 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=National_Public_Broadcasting_Archives&oldid=740435611"					
Categories: Television archives in the United StatesUniversity of Maryland, College ParkHidden categories: Coordinates on Wikidata 
