Sizzle Channel - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search








This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages)







This article does not cite any sources. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (October 2013) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)









This article is an orphan, as no other articles link to it. Please introduce links to this page from related articles; try the Find link tool for suggestions. (October 2013)





(Learn how and when to remove this template message)





Sizzle Channel


Launched
2013


Owned by
Sizzle Media


Picture format
480i (SDTV)
1080i (HDTV)


Slogan
A lifetime of TV, in one hour!


Language
English


Broadcast area
United States


Headquarters
New York City, New York, U.S.


Sizzle Channel was founded in 2013 and is a digital cable television network in the United States.
Sizzle features programming targeting 18- to 45-year-olds, with programming blocks targeted more to males or females depending on the daypart. Sizzle's programming is different then other cable networks in that most programs are between 7–14 minutes in length just like most web series and shows found on the internet. The unique programming format allows viewers to see an average of 6.5 different shows per hour on a variety of diverse topics and themes.
Programming[edit]
The bulk of Sizzle's programming comes from content partners that are established media brands.
Distribution[edit]
Sizzle Channel is available in around 30 million cable households in the United States and Puerto Rico. The channel can also be viewed live on the internet via their home page.
External links[edit]

Official website





This article about a television station in the United States is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.


v
t
e









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Sizzle_Channel&oldid=793007725"					
Categories: Television stations in the United States2013 establishments in New York (state)United States television station stubsHidden categories: Articles lacking sources from October 2013All articles lacking sourcesOrphaned articles from October 2013All orphaned articlesAll stub articles 
