Bow and arrow - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

For the consultancy firm, see Bow & Arrow.




A modern reconstruction, in fiberglass and wood, of a historical composite bow


The bow and arrow is a ranged weapon system consisting of an elastic launching device (bow) and long-shafted projectiles (arrows).
Archery is the art, practice or skill of using bows to shoot arrows.[1] A person who shoots arrows with a bow is called a bowman or an archer. Someone who makes bows is known as a bowyer,[2] one who makes arrows is a fletcher,[3] and one who manufactures metal arrowheads is an arrowsmith.[4]
The use of bow and arrows by humans for hunting practices predates recorded history and were common to most prehistoric cultures. They were important weapons of war across most civilizations throughout ancient history until the early modern period, where they were rendered increasingly obsolete by the development of the more powerful and accurate firearms, and has been eventually dropped from warfare. Today, bows and arrows are used primarily for recreational hunting and sporting purposes.



Contents


1 Basic design and use
2 History
3 Construction

3.1 Parts of the bow
3.2 Arrows
3.3 Arrowheads
3.4 Bowstrings


4 Types of bow
5 Crossbow
6 Citations
7 References
8 Further reading
9 External links



Basic design and use[edit]




Drawing a bow, from a 1908 archery manual


A bow consists of a semi-rigid but elastic arc with a high-tensile bowstring joining the ends of the two limbs of the bow. An arrow is a projectile with a pointed tip and a long shaft with stabilizer fins (fletching) towards the back, with a narrow notch at the very end to contact the bowstring (nock).
To load an arrow for shooting (nocking an arrow), the archer places an arrow across the middle of the bow with the bowstring in the arrow's nock. To shoot, the archer pulls back (draws) the arrow, which also pulls the bowstring and flexes the bow limbs, storing elastic energy. Typically, the archer sights along the arrow to aim it. Finally the archer releases (looses) the arrow, allowing the limbs' stored potential energy to convert into kinetic energy, which is transmitted via the bowstring to the arrow, propelling it to fly forward with high velocity.[5]
A container or bag for additional arrows for quick reloading is called a quiver.
When not in use, bows are generally kept unstrung, meaning one or both ends of the bowstring are detached from the bow. This removes all residual tension on the bow, and can help prevent it from losing strength or elasticity over time. For many bow designs, this also lets it straighten out more completely, reducing the space needed to store the bow. Returning the bowstring to its ready-to-use position is called stringing the bow.
History[edit]
Main article: History of archery




Scythians shooting with bows, Panticapeum (modern Kertch), 4th century BCE.


The bow and arrow appears around the transition from the Upper Paleolithic to the Mesolithic. At the site of Nataruk in Turkana County, Kenya, obsidian bladelets found embedded in a skull and within the thoracic cavity of another skeleton, suggest the use of stone-tipped arrows as weapons.[6] After the end of the last glacial period, use of the bow seems to have spread to every inhabited continent, including the Western Hemisphere, except for Australia.[7]
The oldest extant bows in one piece are the elm Holmegaard bows from Denmark which were dated to 9,000 BCE. High-performance wooden bows are currently made following the Holmegaard design. The Stellmoor bow fragments from northern Germany were dated to about 8,000 BCE, but they were destroyed in Hamburg during the Second World War, before carbon 14 dating was available; their age is attributed by archaeological association.[8] Microliths discovered on the south coast of Africa suggest that arrows may be at least 71,000 years old.[9]
The bow was an important weapon for both hunting and warfare from prehistoric times until the widespread use of gunpowder in the 16th century. Organised warfare with bows ended in the mid 17th century in Europe, but it persisted into the early 19th century in Eastern[clarification needed] cultures and in hunting and tribal warfare in the New World. In the Canadian Arctic bows were made until the end of the 20th century for hunting caribou, for instance at Igloolik. [10] The bow has more recently been used as a weapon of tribal warfare in some parts of Sub-Saharan Africa; an example was documented in 2009 in Kenya when Kisii people and Kalenjin people clashed, resulting in four deaths.[11][12]
The British upper class led a revival of archery from the late 18th century.[13] Sir Ashton Lever, an antiquarian and collector, formed the Toxophilite Society in London in 1781, under the patronage of George, the Prince of Wales.
Construction[edit]




Polychrome small-scale model of the archer XI of the west pediment of the Temple of Aphaea, ca. 505–500 BCE.


Parts of the bow[edit]
The basic elements of a bow are a pair of curved elastic limbs, traditionally made from wood, joined by a riser. Both ends of the limbs are connected by a string known as the bow string.[5] By pulling the string backwards the archer exerts compressive force on the string-facing section, or belly, of the limbs as well as placing the outer section, or back, under tension. While the string is held, this stores the energy later released in putting the arrow to flight.[citation needed] The force required to hold the string stationary at full draw is often used to express the power of a bow, and is known as its draw weight, or weight.[14][15] Other things being equal, a higher draw weight means a more powerful bow, which is able to project heavier arrows at the same velocity or the same arrow at a greater velocity.
The various parts of the bow can be subdivided into further sections. The topmost limb is known as the upper limb, while the bottom limb is the lower limb. At the tip of each limb is a nock, which is used to attach the bowstring to the limbs. The riser is usually divided into the grip, which is held by the archer, as well as the arrow rest and the bow window. The arrow rest is a small ledge or extension above the grip which the arrow rests upon while being aimed. The bow window is that part of the riser above the grip, which contains the arrow rest.[5]
In bows drawn and held by hand, the maximum draw weight is determined by the strength of the archer.[15] The maximum distance the string could be displaced and thus the longest arrow that could be loosed from it, a bow’s draw length, is determined by the size of the archer.[16]
A composite bow uses a combination of materials to create the limbs, allowing the use of materials specialized for the different functions of a bow limb. The classic composite bow uses wood for lightness and dimensional stability in the core, horn to store energy in compression, and sinew for its ability to store energy in tension. Such bows, typically Asian, would often use a stiff end on the limb end, having the effect of a recurve.[17] In this type of bow, this is known by the Arabic name 'siyah'.[18]
Modern construction materials for bows include laminated wood, fiberglass, metals,[19] and carbon fiber components.
Arrows[edit]
Main article: Arrow




Schematic of an arrow showing its parts.


An arrow usually consists of a shaft with an arrowhead attached to the front end, with fletchings and a nock at the other.[20] Modern arrows are usually made from carbon fibre, aluminum, fiberglass, and wood shafts. Carbon shafts have the advantage that they do not bend or warp, but they can often be too light weight to shoot from some bows and are expensive. Aluminum shafts are less expensive than carbon shafts, but they can bend and warp from use. Wood shafts are the least expensive option but often will not be identical in weight and size to each other and break more often than the other types of shafts.[21] Arrow sizes vary greatly across cultures and range from very short ones that require the use of special equipment to be shot to ones in use in the Amazon River jungles that are 8.5 feet (2.6 metres) long. Most modern arrows are 22 inches (56 cm) to 30 inches (76 cm) in length.[20]
Arrows come in many types, among which are breasted, bob-tailed, barreled, clout, and target.[20] A breasted arrow is thickest at the area right behind the fletchings, and tapers towards the (nock) and head.[22] A bob-tailed arrow is thickest right behind the head, and tapers to the nock.[23] A barrelled arrow is thickest in the centre of the arrow.[24] Target arrows are those arrows used for target shooting rather than warfare or hunting, and usually have simple arrowheads.[25]
For safety reasons, a bow should never be shot without an arrow nocked; without an arrow, the energy that is normally transferred into the projectile is instead directed back into the bow itself, which will cause damage to the bow's limbs.
Arrowheads[edit]
Main article: Arrowhead
The end of the arrow that is designed to hit the target is called the arrowhead. Usually, these are separate items that are attached to the arrow shaft by either tangs or sockets. Materials used in the past for arrowheads include flint, bone, horn, or metal. Most modern arrowheads are made of steel, but wood and other traditional materials are still used occasionally. A number of different types of arrowheads are known, with the most common being bodkins, broadheads, and piles.[26] Bodkin heads are simple spikes made of metal of various shapes, designed to pierce armour.[23] A broadhead arrowhead is usually triangular or leaf-shaped and has a sharpened edge or edges. Broadheads are commonly used for hunting.[27] A pile arrowhead is a simple metal cone, either sharpened to a point or somewhat blunt, that is used mainly for target shooting. A pile head is the same diameter as the arrow shaft and is usually just fitted over the tip of the arrow.[28] Other heads are known, including the blunt head, which is flat at the end and is used for hunting small game or birds, and is designed to not pierce the target nor embed itself in trees or other objects and make recovery difficult.[23] Another type of arrowhead is a barbed head, usually used in warfare or hunting.[20]
Bowstrings[edit]
Main article: Bowstring
Bowstrings may have a nocking point marked on them, which serves to mark where the arrow is fitted to the bowstring before shooting.[29] The area around the nocking point is usually bound with thread to protect the area around the nocking point from wear by the archer's hands. This section is called the serving.[30] At one end of the bowstring a loop is formed, which is permanent. The other end of the bowstring also has a loop, but this is not permanently formed into the bowstring but is constructed by tying a knot into the string to form a loop. Traditionally this knot is known as the archer's knot, but is a form of the timber hitch. The knot can be adjusted to lengthen or shorten the bowstring. The adjustable loop is known as the "tail".[31] The string is often twisted (this being called the "flemish twist").
Bowstrings have been constructed of many materials throughout history, including fibres such as flax, silk, and hemp.[32] Other materials used were animal guts, animal sinews, and rawhide. Modern fibres such as Dacron or Kevlar are now used in commercial bowstring construction, as well as steel wires in some compound bows.[33] Compound bows have a mechanical system of pulley cams over which the bowstring is wound.[30] Nylon is useful only in emergency situations, as it stretches too much.[34]
Types of bow[edit]




Bow and arrow in heraldry, as depicted in the coat of arms of Northern Savonia (Pohjois-Savo), Finland.


There is no one accepted system of classification of bows.[35] Bows may be described by various characteristics including the materials used, the length of the draw that they permit, the shape of the bow in sideways view, and the shape of the limb in cross-section.[36]
Common types of bow include

Recurve bow: a bow with the tips curving away from the archer. The curves straighten out as the bow is drawn and the return of the tip to its curved state after release of the arrow adds extra velocity to the arrow.[37]
Reflex bow: a bow whose entire limbs curve away from the archer when unstrung. The curves are opposite to the direction in which the bow flexes while drawn.[37]
Self bow: a bow made from one piece of wood.[30]
Longbow: a self bow with limbs rounded in cross-section, about the same height as the archer so as to allow a full draw, usually over 5 feet (1.5 metres) long. The traditional English longbow was usually made of yew wood, but other woods are also used.[38]
Flatbow: the limbs are approximately rectangular in cross-section. This was traditional in many Native American societies and was found to be the most efficient shape for bow limbs by American engineers in the 20th century.
Composite bow: a bow made of more than one material.[36]
Takedown bow: a bow that can be demounted for transportation, usually consisting of 3 parts: 2 limbs and a Riser.
Compound bow: a bow with mechanical aids to help with drawing the bowstring. Usually, these aids are pulleys at the tips of the limbs.[39]

Crossbow[edit]
Main article: Crossbow
In a crossbow, the limbs of the bow, called a prod, are attached at right angles to a crosspiece or stock in order to allow for mechanical pulling and holding of the string. The mechanism that holds the drawn string has a release or trigger that allows the string to be released.[40] A crossbow shoots a "bolt" or "quarrel", rather than an arrow.[41]
Citations[edit]

Collins, Desmond (1973). Background to archaeology: Britain in its European setting (Revised ed.). Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-20155-1. 
Elmer, R. P. (1946). Target Archery: With a History of the Sport in America. New York: A. A. Knopf. OCLC 1482628. 
Heath, E. G. (1978). Archery: The Modern Approach. London: Faber and Faber. ISBN 0-571-04957-5. 
Paterson, W. F. (1984). Encyclopaedia of Archery. New York: St. Martin's Press. ISBN 0-312-24585-8. 
Sorrells, Brian J. (2004). Beginner's Guide to Traditional Archery. Mechanicsburg, PA: Stackpole Books. ISBN 978-0-8117-3133-1. 
Stone, George Cameron (1999) [1934]. A Glossary of the Construction, Decoration, and Use of Arms and Armor in All Countries and in All Times (Reprint ed.). Mineola: Dover Publications. ISBN 0-486-40726-8. 

References[edit]


^ Paterson Encyclopaedia of Archery p. 17
^ Paterson Encyclopaedia of Archery p. 31
^ Paterson Encyclopaedia of Archery p. 56
^ Paterson Encyclopaedia of Archery p. 20
^ a b c Paterson Encyclopaedia of Archery pp. 27-28
^ Lahr, M. Mirazón; Rivera, F.; Power, R. K.; Mounier, A.; Copsey, B.; Crivellaro, F.; Edung, J. E.; Fernandez, J. M. Maillo; Kiarie, C. (2016). "Inter-group violence among early Holocene hunter-gatherers of West Turkana, Kenya". Nature. 529 (7586): 394–398. doi:10.1038/nature16477. PMID 26791728. 
^ M. H. Monroe, Aboriginal Weapons and Tools "The favoured weapon of the Aborigines was the spear and spear thrower. The fact that they never adopted the bow and arrow has been debated for a long time. During post-glacial times the bow and arrow were being used in every inhabited part of the world except Australia. A number of reasons for this have been put forward [...] Captain Cook saw the bow and arrow being used on an island close to the mainland at Cape York, as it was in the Torres Strait islands and New Guinea. But the Aborigines preferred the spear. "
^ Collins Background to Archaeology
^ Brown, Kyle S.; Marean, Curtis W.; et al. "An early and enduring advanced technology originating 71,000 years ago in South Africa". Nature. 491 (7425): 590–593. doi:10.1038/nature11660. PMID 23135405. CS1 maint: Explicit use of et al. (link)
^ "Bow made by Noah Piagguttuq 1994". 
^ "History of Bows". 
^ http://www.time.com/time/photogallery/0,29307,1722198,00.html
^ Johnes, Martin. "Archery—Romance-and-Elite-Culture-in-England-and-Wales—c-1780-1840 Martin Johnes. Archery, Romance and Elite Culture in England and Wales, c. 1780–1840". Swansea.academia.edu. Retrieved 2013-03-26. 
^ Paterson Encyclopaedia of Archery p. 111
^ a b Sorrells Beginner's Guide pp. 20-21
^ Sorrells Beginner's Guide pp. 19-20
^ Paterson Encyclopaedia of Archery p. 38
^ Elmer Target Archery
^ Heath Archery pp. 15-18
^ a b c d Paterson Encyclopaedia of Archery pp. 18-19
^ Sorrells Beginner's Guide pp. 21-22
^ Paterson Encyclopaedia of Archery p. 32
^ a b c Paterson Encyclopaedia of Archery pp. 25-26
^ Paterson Encyclopaedia of Archery p. 24
^ Paterson Encyclopaedia of Archery p. 103
^ Paterson Encyclopaedia of Archery p. 19
^ Paterson Encyclopaedia of Archery p. 33
^ Paterson Encyclopaedia of Archery p. 85
^ Paterson Encyclopaedia of Archery p. 80
^ a b c Paterson Encyclopaedia of Archery pp. 93-94
^ Heath Archery pp. 27-28
^ Grow your own bowstring
^ Paterson Encyclopaedia of Archery pp. 28-29
^ Paracord 550 used as bow string
^ Paterson Encyclopaedia of Archery p. 37
^ a b Heath Archery pp. 14-16
^ a b Paterson Encyclopaedia of Archery pp. 90-91
^ Paterson Encyclopaedia of Archery pp. 73-75
^ Paterson Encyclopaedia of Archery pp. 38-40
^ Paterson Encyclopaedia of Archery p. 41
^ Paterson Encyclopaedia of Archery p. 26


Further reading[edit]

Gad Rausing, "The Bow", Lund University Acta Archaeologica Lundensia Serie in 8° No 6, 1967
The Traditional Bowyers Bible Volume 1. 1992 The Lyons Press. ISBN 1-58574-085-3
The Traditional Bowyers Bible Volume 2. 1992 The Lyons Press. ISBN 1-58574-086-1
The Traditional Bowyers Bible Volume 3. 1994 The Lyons Press. ISBN 1-58574-087-X
The Traditional Bowyers Bible Volume 4. 2008 The Lyons Press. ISBN 978-0-9645741-6-8
U. Stodiek/H. Paulsen, "Mit dem Pfeil, dem Bogen..." Techniken der steinzeitlichen Jagd. (Oldenburg 1996).
Gray, David, "Bows of the World". The Lyons Press, 2002. ISBN 1-58574-478-6.
Comstock, Paul. "The Bent Stick"

External links[edit]



Wikimedia Commons has media related to Bow and arrow.



The Asian Traditional Archery Research Network
Simon Archery Collection From The Manchester Museum, The University of Manchester
An Approach to the Study of Ancient Archery using Mathematical Modeling







v
t
e


Prehistoric technology






Prehistory

timeline
outline
Stone Age
subdivisions
New Stone Age
synoptic table


Technology

history












Tools







Farming



Neolithic Revolution

founder crops
New World crops


Ard / plough
Celt
Digging stick
Domestication
Goad
Irrigation
Secondary products
Sickle
Terracing





Food processing



Fire
Basket
Cooking

Earth oven


Granaries
Grinding slab
Ground stone
Hearth

Aşıklı Höyük
Qesem Cave


Manos
Metate
Mortar and pestle
Pottery
Quern-stone
Storage pit





Hunting







Arrow
Boomerang

throwing stick


Bow and arrow

history


Nets
Spear

Spear-thrower
baton
harpoon
woomera
Schöningen Spears







Projectile points



Arrowhead
Bare Island
Cascade
Clovis
Cresswell
Cumberland
Eden
Folsom
Lamoka
Manis Site
Plano
Transverse arrowhead





Systems



Game drive system

Buffalo jump










Toolmaking



Earliest toolmaking

Oldowan
Acheulean
Mousterian


Clovis culture
Cupstone
Fire hardening
Gravettian culture
Hafting
Hand axe

Grooves


Langdale axe industry
Levallois technique
Lithic core
Lithic reduction

analysis
debitage
flake


Lithic technology
Magdalenian culture
Metallurgy
Microblade technology
Mining
Prepared-core technique
Solutrean industry
Striking platform
Tool stone
Uniface
Yubetsu technique





Other tools



Adze
Awl

bone


Axe
Bannerstone
Blade

prismatic


Bone tool
Bow drill
Burin
Canoe

Oar
Pesse canoe


Chopper

tool


Cleaver
Denticulate tool
Fire plough
Fire-saw
Hammerstone
Knife
Microlith
Quern-stone
Racloir
Rope
Scraper

side


Stone tool
Tally stick
Weapons
Wheel

illustration


















Architecture







Ceremonial



Göbekli Tepe
Kiva
Standing stones

megalith
row
Stonehenge


Pyramid





Dwellings



Neolithic architecture
British megalith architecture
Nordic megalith architecture
Burdei
Cave
Cliff dwelling
Dugout
Hut

Quiggly hole


Jacal
Longhouse
Mud brick

Mehrgarh


Neolithic long house
Pit-house
Pueblitos
Pueblo
Rock shelter

Blombos Cave
Abri de la Madeleine
Sibudu Cave


Stone roof
Roundhouse
Stilt house

Alp pile dwellings


Wattle and daub





Water management



Check dam
Cistern
Flush toilet
Reservoir
Water well





Other architecture



Archaeological features
Broch
Burnt mound

fulacht fiadh


Causewayed enclosure

Tor enclosure


Circular enclosure

Goseck


Cursus
Henge

Thornborough


Oldest buildings
Megalithic architectural elements
Midden
Timber circle
Timber trackway

Sweet Track


















Arts and culture







Material goods



Baskets
Beadwork
Beds
Chalcolithic
Clothing/textiles

timeline


Cosmetics
Glue
Hides

shoes
Ötzi


Jewelry

amber use


Mirrors
Pottery

Cardium
Grooved ware
Linear
Jōmon
Unstan ware


Sewing needle
Weaving
Wine

Winery
wine press







PrehistArt



Art of the Upper Paleolithic
Art of the Middle Paleolithic

Blombos Cave


List of Stone Age art
Bird stone
Bradshaw rock paintings
Cairn
Carved Stone Balls
Cave paintings

painting
pigment


Cup and ring mark
Geoglyph
Golden hats
Guardian stones
Megalithic art
Petroform
Petroglyph
Petrosomatoglyph
Pictogram
Rock art

Stone carving


Sculpture
Statue menhir
Stone circle

list
British Isles and Brittany


Venus figurines





Burial



Burial mounds

Bowl barrow
Round barrow


Mound Builders culture

U.S. sites


Chamber tomb

Severn-Cotswold


Cist

Dartmoor kistvaens


Clava cairn
Court tomb
Cremation
Dolmen

Great dolmen


Funeral pyre
Gallery grave

transepted
wedge-shaped


Grave goods
Jar burial
Long barrow

unchambered
Grønsalen


Megalithic tomb
Mummy
Passage grave
Rectangular dolmen
Ring cairn
Simple dolmen
Stone box grave
Tor cairn
Tumulus
Unchambered long cairn





Other cultural



Astronomy

sites
lunar calendar


Behavioral modernity
Origin of language
Prehistoric medicine

trepanning


Evolutionary musicology

music archaeology


Prehistoric music

Alligator drum
flutes
Divje Babe flute
gudi


Prehistoric numerals
Origin of religion

Paleolithic religion
Prehistoric religion
Spiritual drug use


Prehistoric warfare
Symbols

symbolism




















v
t
e


Archery






History

Chinese
Turkish


History of crossbows
Modern competitive archery
World Archery Federation
World Archery Rankings





Topics



Archer's paradox
Bow and arrow
Mounted archery








Bows
Bow shape



Arbalest
Cable-backed bow
Composite bow
Compound bow
Crossbow
English longbow
Flatbow
Gakgung
Holmegaard bow
Laminated bow
Longbow
Mongol bow
Recurve bow
Self bow
Takedown bow
Yumi





Equipment



Arrow
Arrowhead
Bowstring
Bracer
Cresting machine
Finger tab
Fletching
Flu-flu arrow
Quarrel
Quiver
Thumb ring





Activities



Archery games
Bowfishing
Bowhunting
Clout archery
Field archery
Popinjay
Target archery





Competitions



World Archery Championships
Archery World Cup
Archery at the Summer Olympics
Archery at the Summer Paralympics
Archery at the Youth Olympic Games






Glossary of archery terms










v
t
e


Woodworking



Overviews



History
Glossary
Wood (lumber)





Forms



Boat building
Bow and arrow
Bush carpentry
Cabinetry
Caning
Carpentry
Certosina
Chainsaw carving
Chip carving
Clogs
Ébéniste
Fretwork
Intarsia
Japanese carpentry
Khatam
Log building
Marquetry
Millwork
Parquetry
Pyrography
Relief carving
Root carving
Sawdust
Segmented turning
Shingle weaving
Shipbuilding
Spindle turning
Timber framing
Whittling
Wood carving
Woodturning
Wood flour





Woods




Soft



Cedar (Calocedrus, Cedrus)
Cypress
Douglas fir
Fir
Juniper
Larch
Pine
Spruce
Yew





Hard



Ash
Alder
Aspen
Balsa
Beech
Birch
Cherry
Chestnut
Cocobolo
Ebony
Elm
Hazel
Lignum vitae
Linden (lime, basswood)
Mahogany
Maple
Oak
Padauk
Plum
Poplar
Teak
Totara
Walnut
Willow








Tools







Abrasives
Axe
Adze
Chisel
Clamp
Drawknife
Drill
Float
Mallet
Milling machine
Mitre box
Moulding plane
Plane
Rasp
Router
Sandpaper
Spokeshave
Timber-framing
Vise
Winding sticks
Wood scribe
Workbench





Saws



Backsaw
Bandsaw
Bow
Bucksaw
Chainsaw
Circular
Compass
Coping
Crosscut
Frame
Fretsaw
Jigsaw
Keyhole
Miter
Rip
Scroll
Table
Veneer
Whipsaw








Geometry




Joints



Birdsmouth
Bridle
Butt
Butterfly
Coping
Crown of thorns
Dado
Dovetail
Finger
Groove
Halved
Hammer-headed tenon
Knee
Lap
Mason's mitre
Miter
Mortise and tenon
Rabbet/Rebate
Scarf
Splice
Tongue and groove





Profiles



Bead
Bevel
Chamfer
Molding
Ogee
Ogive








Treatments



French polish
Heat bending
Paint
Paint stripper
Steam bending
Thermal
Varnish
Wood drying
Wood preservation
Wood stain
Wood finishing





Organizations



American Association of Woodturners
Architectural Woodwork Institute
British Woodworking Federation
Building and Wood Workers' International
Caricature Carvers of America
International Federation of Building and Wood Workers
National Wood Carvers Association
Society of Wood Engravers
Timber Framers Guild





Conversion



Chainsaw mill
Hewing
Sawmill
Whipsaw
Wood splitting





Techniques



Frame and panel
Frameless construction








 Category
 WikiProject
 Commons










 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Bow_and_arrow&oldid=812599711"					
Categories: Bows (archery)WeaponsHeraldic chargesHunting equipmentHidden categories: CS1 maint: Explicit use of et al.Wikipedia articles needing clarification from May 2016All articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from August 2012Commons category with local link different than on Wikidata 
