House - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

This article is about the form of dwelling. For other uses, see House (disambiguation).
For a place where someone dwells, see Home.




A Székely house in Székely Land, Transylvania, Romania






Shantytown houses in Soweto, South Africa






Marken, Netherlands






A ranch-style house in Salinas, California, U.S.






House on the lands where a German farmstead was once active


A house is a building that functions as a home, ranging from simple dwellings such as rudimentary huts of nomadic tribes and the improvised shacks in shantytowns to complex, fixed structures of wood, brick, concrete or other materials containing plumbing, ventilation and electrical systems.[1][2] Houses use a range of different roofing systems to keep precipitation such as rain from getting into the dwelling space. Houses may have doors or locks to secure the dwelling space and protect its inhabitants and contents from burglars or other trespassers. Most conventional modern houses in Western cultures will contain one or more bedrooms and bathrooms, a kitchen or cooking area, and a living room. A house may have a separate dining room, or the eating area may be integrated into another room. Some large houses in North America have a recreation room. In traditional agriculture-oriented societies, domestic animals such as chickens or larger livestock (like cattle) may share part of the house with humans. The social unit that lives in a house is known as a household.
Most commonly, a household is a family unit of some kind, although households may also be other social groups, such as roommates or, in a rooming house, unconnected individuals. Some houses only have a dwelling space for one family or similar-sized group; larger houses called townhouses or row houses may contain numerous family dwellings in the same structure. A house may be accompanied by outbuildings, such as a garage for vehicles or a shed for gardening equipment and tools. A house may have a backyard or frontyard, which serve as additional areas where inhabitants can relax or eat.



Contents


1 Etymology
2 Elements

2.1 Layout
2.2 Parts
2.3 History of the interior

2.3.1 Communal rooms
2.3.2 Interconnecting rooms
2.3.3 Corridor
2.3.4 Employment-free house
2.3.5 Technology and privacy




3 Construction

3.1 Energy efficiency
3.2 Earthquake protection


4 Found materials
5 Legal issues

5.1 United Kingdom


6 Identifying houses
7 Animal houses
8 Houses and symbolism
9 See also
10 References
11 External links



Etymology[edit]
The English word house derives directly from the Old English Hus meaning "dwelling, shelter, home, house," which in turn derives from Proto-Germanic Khusan (reconstructed by etymological analysis) which is of unknown origin.[3] The house itself gave rise to the letter 'B' through an early Proto-Semitic hieroglyphic symbol depicting a house. The symbol was called "bayt", "bet" or "beth" in various related languages, and became beta, the Greek letter, before it was used by the Romans.[4]
Elements[edit]
Layout[edit]




Example of an early Victorian "Gingerbread House" in Connecticut, United States, built in 1855


Ideally, architects of houses design rooms to meet the needs of the people who will live in the house. Such designing, known as "interior design", has become a popular subject in universities. Feng shui, originally a Chinese method of moving houses according to such factors as rain and micro-climates, has recently expanded its scope to address the design of interior spaces, with a view to promoting harmonious effects on the people living inside the house, although no actual effect has ever been demonstrated. Feng shui can also mean the "aura" in or around a dwelling, making it comparable to the real-estate sales concept of "indoor-outdoor flow".
The square footage of a house in the United States reports the area of "living space", excluding the garage and other non-living spaces. The "square metres" figure of a house in Europe reports the area of the walls enclosing the home, and thus includes any attached garage and non-living spaces.[5][citation needed] The number of floors or levels making up the house can affect the square footage of a home.
Parts[edit]
Many houses have several large rooms with specialized functions and several very small rooms for other various reasons. These may include a living/eating area, a sleeping area, and (if suitable facilities and services exist) separate or combined washing and lavatory areas. Some larger properties may also feature rooms such as a spa room, indoor pool, indoor basketball court, and other 'non-essential' facilities. In traditional agriculture-oriented societies, domestic animals such as chickens or larger livestock (like cattle) often share part of the house with human beings. Most conventional modern houses will at least contain a bedroom, bathroom, kitchen or cooking area, and a living room. A typical "foursquare house" (as pictured) occurred commonly in the early history of the US where they were mainly built, with a staircase in the center of the house, surrounded by four rooms, and connected to other sections of the home (including in more recent eras a garage).
History of the interior[edit]
Further information: House plan




Floor plan of a "foursquare" house


Little is known about the earliest origin of the house and its interior, but it can be traced back to the simplest form of shelters. Roman architect Vitruvius' theories have claimed the first form of architecture as a frame of timber branches finished in mud, also known as the primitive hut.[6] Philip Tabor later states the contribution of 17th century Dutch houses as the foundation of houses today.

"As far as the idea of the home is concerned, the home of the home is the Netherlands. This idea's crystallization might be dated to the first three-quarters of the 17th century, when the Dutch Netherlands amassed the unprecedented and unrivalled accumulation of capital, and emptied their purses into domestic space.[7]

Communal rooms[edit]




A traditional Finnish house from the beginning of 20th century in Jyväskylä






Traditional house in Japan


In the Middle Ages, the Manor Houses facilitated different activities and events. Furthermore, the houses accommodated numerous people, including family, relatives, employees, servants and their guests.[6] Their lifestyles were largely communal, as areas such as the Great Hall enforced the custom of dining and meetings and the Solar intended for shared sleeping beds.[8]
Interconnecting rooms[edit]
During the 15th and 16th centuries, the Italian Renaissance Palazzo consisted of plentiful rooms of connectivity. Unlike the qualities and uses of the Manor Houses, most rooms of the palazzo contained no purpose, yet were given several doors. These doors adjoined rooms in which Robin Evans describes as a "matrix of discrete but thoroughly interconnected chambers."[9] The layout allowed occupants to freely walk room to room from one door to another, thus breaking the boundaries of privacy.

"Once inside it is necessary to pass from one room to the next, then to the next to traverse the building. Where passages and staircases are used, as inevitably they are, they nearly always connect just one space to another and never serve as general distributors of movement. Thus, despite the precise architectural containment offered by the addition of room upon room, the villa was, in terms of occupation, an open plan, relatively permeable to the numerous members of the household."[9]

Although very public, the open plan encouraged sociality and connectivity for all inhabitants.[6]
Corridor[edit]
An early example of the segregation of rooms and consequent enhancement of privacy may be found in 1597 at the Beaufort House built in Chelsea. It was designed by English architect John Thorpe who wrote on his plans, "A Long Entry through all".[10] The separation of the passageway from the room developed the function of the corridor. This new extension was revolutionary at the time, allowing the integration of one door per room, in which all universally connected to the same corridor. English architect Sir Roger Pratt states "the common way in the middle through the whole length of the house, [avoids] the offices from one molesting the other by continual passing through them."[11] Social hierarchies within the 17th century were highly regarded, as architecture was able to epitomize the servants and the upper class. More privacy is offered to the occupant as Pratt further claims, "the ordinary servants may never publicly appear in passing to and fro for their occasions there."[11] This social divide between rich and poor favored the physical integration of the corridor into housing by the 19th century.
Sociologist Witold Rybczynski wrote, "the subdivision of the house into day and night uses, and into formal and informal areas, had begun."[12] Rooms were changed from public to private as single entryways forced notions of entering a room with a specific purpose.[6]
Employment-free house[edit]
Compared to the large scaled houses in England and the Renaissance, the 17th Century Dutch house was smaller, and was only inhabited by up to four to five members.[6] This was due to their embracing "self-reliance",[6] in contrast to the dependence on servants, and a design for a lifestyle centered on the family. It was important for the Dutch to separate work from domesticity, as the home became an escape and a place of comfort. This way of living and the home has been noted as highly similar to the contemporary family and their dwellings. House layouts also incorporated the idea of the corridor as well as the importance of function and privacy.
By the end of the 17th Century, the house layout was soon transformed to become employment-free, enforcing these ideas for the future. This came in favour for the industrial revolution, gaining large-scale factory production and workers.[6] The house layout of the Dutch and its functions are still relevant today. The names of parts of a house often echo the names of parts of other buildings, but could typically include:


Alcove
Atrium
Attic
Basement/cellar
Bathroom (in various senses of the word)




Bath/shower
Toilet




Bedroom (or nursery, for infants or small children)
Box-room / storage room
Conservatory
Dining room
Family room or den




Fireplace (for warmth during winter; generally not found in warmer climates)




Foyer
Front room (in various senses of the phrase)
Garage
Hallway / passage / Vestibule
Hearth – often an important symbolic focus of family togetherness
Home-office or study
Kitchen
Larder
Laundry room
Library
Living room
Loft
Nook
Pantry
Parlour
Pew/porch
Recreation room / rumpus room / television room
Shrines to serve the religious functions associated with a family
Stairwell
Sunroom
Swimming pool
Window
Workshop









Farmhouse in Bhutan









Khmer house in Cambodia









Traditional house in Colombia









Traditional houses in Faza, Kenya









Traditional village house in Banaue, Philippines









House in Brgule, Serbia




Technology and privacy[edit]




Traditional stone house in Serbia


The introduction of technology and electronic systems within the house has questioned the impressions of privacy as well as the segregation of work from home. Technological advances of surveillance and communications allow insight of personal habits and private lives.[6] As a result, the "private becomes ever more public, [and] the desire for a protective home life increases, fuelled by the very media that undermine it" writes Hill.[6] Work also, has been altered due to the increase of communications. The "deluge of information",[6] has expressed the efforts of work, conveniently gaining access inside the house. Although commuting is reduced, "the desire to separate working and living remains apparent."[6] In Jonathan Hill's book Immature Architecture, he identifies this new invasion of privacy as Electromagnetic Weather. Natural or man-made weather remains concurrent inside or outside the house, yet the electromagnetic weather is able to generate within both positions.[6][clarification needed] On the other hand, some architects have designed homes in which eating, working and living are brought together.
Construction[edit]
See also: House-building




Some houses are constructed from bricks and wood and are later covered by insulating panels. The roof construction is also seen.






Two baracche(slum in Italian) near Oltre il Colle, Italy.
These homes are often illegally built and without electricity, proper sanitation and taps for drinking water.


In the United States, modern house-construction techniques include light-frame construction (in areas with access to supplies of wood) and adobe or sometimes rammed-earth construction (in arid regions with scarce wood-resources). Some areas use brick almost exclusively, and quarried stone has long provided walling. To some extent, aluminum and steel have displaced some traditional building materials. Increasingly popular alternative construction materials include insulating concrete forms (foam forms filled with concrete), structural insulated panels (foam panels faced with oriented strand board or fiber cement), and light-gauge steel framing and heavy-gauge steel framing.
More generally, people often build houses out of the nearest available material, and often tradition or culture govern construction-materials, so whole towns, areas, counties or even states/countries may be built out of one main type of material. For example, a large fraction of American houses use wood, while most British and many European houses utilize stone or brick or mud.




Construction of a house using bamboo. Bamboo-made houses are popular in China, Japan and other Asian countries, because of their resistance to earthquakes and hurricanes.


In the 1900s (decade), some house designers started using prefabrication. Sears, Roebuck & Co. first marketed their Sears Catalog Homes to the general public in 1908. Prefab techniques became popular after World War II. First small inside rooms framing, then later, whole walls were prefabricated and carried to the construction site. The original impetus was to use the labor force inside a shelter during inclement weather. More recently builders have begun to collaborate with structural engineers who use computers and finite element analysis to design prefabricated steel-framed homes with known resistance to high wind-loads and seismic forces. These newer products provide labor savings, more consistent quality, and possibly accelerated construction processes.
Lesser-used construction methods have gained (or regained) popularity in recent years. Though not in wide use, these methods frequently appeal to homeowners who may become actively involved in the construction process. They include:

Cannabrick construction
Cordwood construction
Geodesic domes
Straw-bale construction
Wattle and daub
Timber framing
Framing (construction)

Energy efficiency[edit]




Thermographic comparison of traditional (left) and "passivhaus" (right) buildings


In the developed world, energy-conservation has grown in importance in house-design. Housing produces a major proportion of carbon emissions (30% of the total in the UK, for example).[13]
Development of a number of low-energy building types and techniques continues. They include the zero-energy house, the passive solar house, the autonomous buildings, the superinsulated and houses built to the Passivhaus standard.
Earthquake protection[edit]
One tool of earthquake engineering is base isolation which is increasingly used for earthquake protection. Base isolation is a collection of structural elements of a building that should substantially decouple it from the shaking ground thus protecting the building's integrity[14] and enhancing its seismic performance. This technology, which is a kind of seismic vibration control, can be applied both to a newly designed building and to seismic upgrading of existing structures.[15]
Normally, excavations are made around the building and the building is separated from the foundations. Steel or reinforced concrete beams replace the connections to the foundations, while under these, the isolating pads, or base isolators, replace the material removed. While the base isolation tends to restrict transmission of the ground motion to the building, it also keeps the building positioned properly over the foundation. Careful attention to detail is required where the building interfaces with the ground, especially at entrances, stairways and ramps, to ensure sufficient relative motion of those structural elements.
Bamboo is an earthquake-resistant material, and is very versatile because it comes from fast-grow plants. Adding that bamboos are common in Asia, bamboo-made houses are popular in some Asian countries.
Found materials[edit]




A traditional Kurdish stone house


In many parts of the world, houses are constructed using scavenged materials. In Manila's Payatas neighborhood, slum houses are often made of material sourced from a nearby garbage dump.[16]
In Dakar, it is not uncommon to see houses made of recycled materials standing atop a mixture of garbage and sand which serves as a foundation. The garbage-sand mixture is also used to protect the house from flooding.[17]
Legal issues[edit]




A house in Ontario, Canada






Houses may be repeatedly expanded leading to a complex construction history.


Buildings with historical importance have legal restrictions.
United Kingdom[edit]
New houses in the UK are not covered by the Sale of Goods Act. When purchasing a new house the buyer has different legal protection than when buying other products. New houses in the UK are covered by a National House Building Council guarantee.
Identifying houses[edit]
With the growth of dense settlement, humans designed ways of identifying houses and/or parcels of land. Individual houses sometimes acquire proper names; and those names may acquire in their turn considerable emotional connotations: see for example the house of Howards End or the castle of Brideshead Revisited. A more systematic and general approach to identifying houses may use various methods of house numbering.
Animal houses[edit]




Birdhouse made to look like a real house


Humans often build houses for domestic or wild animals, often resembling smaller versions of human domiciles. Familiar animal houses built by humans include birdhouses, henhouses and doghouses, while housed agricultural animals more often live in barns and stables.
Houses and symbolism[edit]
Houses may express the circumstances or opinions of their builders or their inhabitants. Thus a vast and elaborate house may serve as a sign of conspicuous wealth, whereas a low-profile house built of recycled materials may indicate support of energy conservation.
Houses of particular historical significance (former residences of the famous, for example, or even just very old houses) may gain a protected status in town planning as examples of built heritage and/or of street scape. Commemorative plaques may mark such structures.
Home ownership provides a common measure of prosperity in economics. Contrast the importance of house-destruction, tent dwelling and house rebuilding in the wake of many natural disasters.
Peter Olshavsky's "House for the Dance of Death"[18] provides a 'pataphysical variation on the house.
See also[edit]


Home portal
Home improvement portal




Building


House-building
Index of construction articles


Functions


Building science
Mixed-use development
Visitability


Types


Boarding house
Earth sheltering
Home automation
Housing estate
Housing in Japan
Hurricane-proof house
Lodging
Lustron house
Mobile home
Modular home
Summer house
Tiny house


Economics


Affordable housing
Real estate bubble

United States housing bubble


Housing tenure


Miscellaneous


Domestic robot
Homelessness
Home network
Housewarming party
Squatting


Institutions


U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development

HUD USER
Regulatory Barriers Clearinghouse




Lists


List of American houses
List of house styles
List of house types
List of human habitation forms
List of real estate topics
Open-air museum


References[edit]



^ Schoenauer, Norbert (2000). 6,000 Years of Housing (rev. ed.) (New York: W.W. Norton & Company).
^ "housing papers" (PDF). clerk.house.gov. Retrieved December 18, 2012. 
^ "Online Etymology Dictionary". Etymonline.com. Retrieved January 4, 2012. 
^ Sacks, David (2004). Letter perfect: the marvelous history of our alphabet from A to Z. Random House Digital. pp. 65–66. ISBN 0-7679-1173-3. 
^ Iyyer, Chaitanya (2009). Land Management: Challenges and Strategies (First Edition). Global India Publications Pvt Ltd. ISBN 978-9380228488. 
^ a b c d e f g h i j k l Hill, Jonathan, “Immaterial Architecture”, New York: Routledge, 2006.
^ Tabor, Philip, "Striking Home: The Telematic Assault on Identity". Published in Jonathan Hill, editor, Occupying Architecture: Between the Architect and the User.
^ "Manor House". Middle-ages.org.uk. May 16, 2007. Retrieved January 4, 2012. 
^ a b Evans, Robin “Translations from Drawing to Building: Figures, Doors and Passages” London: Architectural Associations Publications 2005
^ Summerson, John “The Book Of Architecture of John Thorpe in Sit John Soan's museum: 40th Volume of the Walpole Society” England: The Society 1964
^ a b Pratt, Sir Roger “Sir R. Pratt on Architecture” 1928
^ Rybczynski, Witold (1987). Home: A Short History of An Idea. London: Penguin. p. 56. ISBN 0-14-010231-0. 
^ "Energy Performance Certificates - what they are : Directgov - Home and community". Direct.gov.uk. Retrieved January 4, 2012. 
^ neesit (April 27, 2007). "YouTube – Testing of a New Line of Seismic Base Isolators". Youtube.com. Retrieved January 4, 2012. 
^ James M. Kelly, Professor Emeritus Civil and Environmental Engineering. "Base Isolation: Origins and Development". National Information Service for Earthquake Engineering, University of California, Berkeley. Archived from the original on February 1, 2009. 
^ Brown, Andy (2009). "Below the poverty line: living on a garbage dump". Real Lives. UNICEF. Retrieved July 12, 2013. Slum houses, often made of materials scavenged from the dump site... 
^ Nossiter, Adam (May 2, 2009). "In Senegal, Building on Perilous Layers of Trash". The New York Times. 
^ https://www.mcgill.ca/files/architecture-theory/olshavsky.pdf



External links[edit]

Housing through the centuries, animation by The Atlantic







v
t
e


Real estate developments



Commercial



Airport
Business park
Commercial area
Mixed-use development
Office building
Port

inland


Retail park
Riverfront
Shopping mall / center
Shopping streets and districts
Warehouse District





Industrial



Business cluster
Industrial district
Industrial park
Technology centers





Residential



Apartment complex
Bungalow court
City block
Company town
Golf course community
Gated community
Housing estate
Intentional community
Mixed-use development
Model dwellings for the poor
Multi-family residential
Private community
Public housing
Residential area
Retirement community
Revenue house
Single room occupancy
Subdivision
Tract housing





Science / Education



Campus
Research park

list


Satellite campus
Science park





Municipal



Arcology
Garden city movement
Model village
Planned cities
Planned community
Urban open space

parks







Buildings



Apartment
House

types


Skyscraper
Tower block
Villa





Miscellaneous



Brownfield land
Cemetery
Cluster development
Construction
Context theory
Eminent domain
Greenfield land
Greyfield land
Land-use planning
Park
Parking
Playground
Redevelopment
Regional planning
Urban design
Urban planning
Zoning












v
t
e


Rooms and spaces of a house



Shared residential rooms



Billiard room
Bonus room
Common room
Den
Dining room
Ell
Family room
Garret
Great room
Hearth room
Home cinema
Home office
Kitchen

Dirty kitchen
Kitchenette


Living room
Man cave
Recreation room
Shrine
Study
Sunroom





Spaces



Atrium
Balcony
Breezeway
Catio
Conversation pit
Deck
Elevator
Entryway / Genkan
Foyer
Hallway
Lanai
Loft
Loggia
Overhang
Patio
Porch

screened
sleeping


Ramp
Secret passage
Stairs
Terrace
Veranda
Vestibule





Utility and storage



Attic
Basement
Box room
Carport
Cloakroom
Closet
Electrical room
Equipment room
Furnace room / Boiler room
Garage
Janitorial closet
Larder
Laundry room / Utility room
Mechanical room / floor
Pantry
Root cellar
Semi-basement
Spear closet
Storm cellar / Safe room
Studio
Subbasement
Wardrobe
Wine cellar
Wiring closet / Demarcation point
Workshop





Private rooms



Bathroom
Bedroom / Guest room
Boudoir
Cabinet
Jack and Jill bathroom
Nursery
Suite
Toilet
Walk-in closet





Great house areas



Antechamber
Ballroom
Butler's pantry
Buttery
Conservatory
Courtyard
Drawing room
Fainting room
Great chamber
Great hall
Long gallery
Lumber room
Parlour
Porte-cochère
Saucery
Sauna
Scullery
Servants' hall
Servants' quarters
Smoking room
Solar
Spicery
State room
Still room
Swimming pool
Undercroft





Other



Building
Furniture
House plan
Multi-family residential
Secondary suite
Single-family detached home





Architectural elements



Arch
Baluster
Ceiling
Colonnade
Column
Floor
Gate
Lighting
Medallion
Ornament
Portico
Roof
Vault








Find out more on Wikipedia's
Sister projects


Media
from Commons
Quotations
from Wikiquote
Data
from Wikidata







Authority control



GND: 4023693-6
NDL: 00575146










 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=House&oldid=812206011"					
Categories: HousesStructural systemHousingHomeHidden categories: Use mdy dates from July 2014All articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from February 2007Wikipedia articles needing clarification from December 2011Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers 
