Black Hollywood Live - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search







This article does not cite any sources. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (December 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)





Black Hollywood Live





Presentation


Genre
TV / Talk Show


Language
English


Updates
Daily


Length
Approx. 1 Hour


Production


Production



Derrial Christon – Executive Producer/President of Programming
Tiona Hobson – Senior Producer/VP of Programming
Nick Perdue – Producer
Ashley Gray – Talent Booker
Scipio - Announcer
Jesse Janedy – Associate Producer
Courtney Stewart - Consulting Producer
Ashida Onrae - Segment Producer
Pat Lambert - Consulting Producer
Marisa Serafini - Consulting Producer
Stephen Lemieux – Associate Producer
Phil Svitek – Executive Producer/VP of Content





Audio format
MP3


Publication


Original release
Creators: Keven Undergaro & Maria Menounos – present


Black Hollywood Live is the world’s 1st online broadcast network devoted mainly to African American entertainment. BHL current programming showcases news, intelligent commentary, and inside information on entertainment, pop culture, politics and lifestyle and features in depth interviews with celebrities, experts, and influencers of all kinds.



Contents


1 Inception
2 History
3 Programming
4 Current Black Hollywood Live Programming
5 Reception
6 Stats
7 Staff Infrastructure
8 Connectivity
9 External links



Inception[edit]
Producer Keven Undergaro and E! host Maria Menounos created Black Hollywood Live for the purpose of delivering intelligent, thought-provoking commentary, as well as serving as an insider source for news, information and resources. The two are pioneers in online broadcasting with Menounos serving as the 2014 CES ambassador and the duo having created and launched AfterBuzz TV, the largest pure online broadcast network that produces post-game 'after-shows' for your favorite TV shows.
History[edit]
Through successful AfterBuzz TV after-shows such as Scandal, Real Husbands of Hollywood, Love and Hip Hop, and The Game, Undergaro noticed an increasing demand for African American online talk, news, and entertainment. Between partner Maria Menounos' 15 years of experience in both hard news and entertainment news and Undergaro's producing experience in TV and digital broadcasting, the two sought to meet that demand. In building the network and assigning a network head, Undergaro met with Derrial Christon.
Christon, one of the leading hosts for AfterBuzz TV who had previously worked at Vibe magazine under the direct tutelage of Keith Clinkscales (current CEO of Revolt TV), realized the void as well. Subsequently Christon was named Executive Producer of the network and President of Programming.
Programming[edit]
BHL produces live and on-demand content in both audio and video forms. Fans can watch select shows live by visiting BlackHollywoodLive.com. On-demand users can either watch the YouTube videos of the shows or download or stream the audio via popular podcast platforms such as iTunes or Stitcher.
Black Hollywood Live's notable hosts include Derrial Christon, Courtney Stewart, Jesse Janedy, Rachel True, Sam Sarong, Stacy Ike, Ashley Gray, Chevonne Hughes, Mari Fagel, Spicy Mari, Nick Perdue, Erica Renee Davis, Josh Rodriguez, Rheina Ale, Alia Kruz, Akili Shine, Eboni K. Williams, Joe Braswell, and Kevin John Peters.
Current Black Hollywood Live Programming[edit]
100% Reel
100% Reel provides intelligent discussion and breakdown of various movie titles.
Athletes
Athletes provides weekly in depth interviews with some of today’s most talked about athletes.
Black Tea Party
The Black Tea Party features weekly discussions on political news and current affairs.
Breaking Into
Breaking Into features in depth interviews with today's most influential entertainment figures highlighting their tips, tricks and techniques on breaking into the entertainment industry.
Broadway Breakdown
Broadway Breakdown features in depth interviews with Broadway actors, writers, producers and directors.
Confessions of An Erotica Dancer
Confessions of An Erotica Dancer features weekly round table discussions from exotic dancers and members of the strip tease community.
Doing Laundry With
Doing Laundry With features Black Hollywood Live hosts and celebrities in an offbeat, playful interview format, literally washing and folding their clothes, while opening up about themselves and "airing out their laundry".
Fashion 411
Fashion 411 provides weekly news and inside information as well as insight, discussion and commentary on the current state of fashion. BHL Fashion 411 is the world’s 1st black fashion podcast and has been in the iTunes top 10 of fashion & beauty podcasts since creation.
Geek. Nerd. Tech
Geek. Nerd. Tech. provides fun but insightful commentary on the latest trending gadgets, electronics and consumer products.
Gospel Takeover
Gospel Takeover features weekly discussions and in depth interviews with today's most influential gospel talent.
Justice Is Served
Justice is Served provides weekly news and inside information as well as insight, discussion and commentary, on current and trending legal affairs.
Let's Talk About Sex
Let's Talk About Sex features in depth discussions on dating, intimacy and relationships.
Life Changers
Life Changers features in depth interviews with individuals positively impacting our society.
Next
Next episodes deliver in depth interviews with the “most talked about” up & coming talent in Hollywood. Guests of Next discuss their thoughts, journeys and passions in an intelligent, long-form interview.
Phenomenal Women
Phenomenal Women features in depth interviews with today's most inspiring women.
Portraits
Portraits episodes deliver in depth interviews with legendary entertainers in the African American Community. The most respected actors, producers and directors discuss their thoughts, journeys and passions in an intelligent, long-form interview.
Reality Check
Reality Check features in depth interviews with today's Reality TV stars.
School of Modeling
School of Modeling features weekly tips, tricks and techniques on breaking into the modeling industry.
Stand Up / Sit Down
Stand Up / Sit Down episodes deliver in depth interviews with today’s up & coming comedians discussing their careers, and inspirations as well as the art of stand-up comedy and comedic acting, in general.
Success Is the New Black
Success Is the New Black features in depth interviews with today's top businessmen and women.
Success Under 30
Success Under 30 features in depth interviews with individuals who have achieved success under the age of 30.
The Beat
The Beat provides weekly commentary, discussions and interviews with some of the hottest musical artists in the industry.
The Casting Call
The Casting Call features weekly commentary and insight as well as tips, tricks and techniques from leading Hollywood casting directors and agents.
This Week
This Week episodes report, breakdown and discuss the hottest topics making news headlines within the African American community and beyond.
Urban Wellness and Beauty
Urban Wellness and Beauty features weekly commentary, information and news on urban health, beauty and lifestyle.
Write On
Write On features in depth interviews with writers and show runners in the entertainment industry.
YouTube Stars
YouTube Stars features in depth interviews with today's top YouTube personalities.
Reception[edit]
Black Hollywood Live currently receives 100,000 downloads per week and is seen and heard in over 70 countries around the globe.
Stats[edit]
YouTube Subscribers are up +59.32% in the past 30 days and YouTube views are up +155.30% in the past 30 days. YouTube views are up +80.36 in the past 90 days.
BHL shows have been featured on outlets such as The Huffington Post, CBS.com and Fox14 just to name a few.
Alex it's too hard in 2017
Howie Do It
Global Currence
48 Hours Mystery
The Celebrity Apprentice
Eco-Challenge: North American Championships
Kitchen Nightmares
Canada Sings
Undercover Boss Canada
Wipeout (2008 U.S. game show)
The Wall (TV series)
Staff Infrastructure[edit]
There are over 25 hosts that make up the Black Hollywood Live Network: an insightful mix of celebrities, industry professionals, experts and trend setters. The current roster of hosts can be viewed on blackhollywoodlive.com.
The core staff of Black Hollywood Live consists of Derrial Christon; Tiona Hobson, Nick Perdue, Ashley Gray, Jesse Janedy, Stephen Lemiuex and Phil Svitek.
Connectivity[edit]
Black Hollywood Live is accessible through their home website, as well as YouTube, and iTunes. In other areas of social media, BHL also reaches to Facebook and Twitter.
External links[edit]

Official website





 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Black_Hollywood_Live&oldid=812305808"					
Categories: African-American mediaPodcasting companiesAudio podcastsInternet television in the United StatesHidden categories: Articles lacking sources from December 2015All articles lacking sources 
