Disney's House of Mouse - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search







This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (March 2013) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)





Disney's House of Mouse



Mickey Mouse and his friends run the House of Mouse nightclub together.



Created by



Rob Gannaway
Tony Craig





Directed by



Rob Gannaway
Tony Craig
Rick Schneider-Calabash
Mike Moon
Rob Renzetti (timing)





Voices of



Wayne Allwine
Tony Anselmo
Russi Taylor
Bill Farmer
Jason Marsden
Corey Burton
Jim Cummings
April Winchell
Tress MacNeille





Narrated by
Rod Roddy


Theme music composer
Brian Setzer


Country of origin
United States


No. of seasons
3


No. of episodes
52 (list of episodes)


Production


Running time
20 minutes (Shorts 10 minutes approx.)


Production company(s)



Walt Disney Television Animation
Toon City





Distributor
Buena Vista Television


Release


Original network



ABC (Disney's One Saturday Morning) (2001–2002)
Toon Disney (2002–2009)





Picture format



480i (4:3 SDTV)
1080i (16:9 HDTV)





Audio format
Stereo


Original release
January 13, 2001 (2001-01-13) – September 2, 2002 (2002-09-02)


Website
psc.disney.go.com/abcnetworks/toondisney/shows/hom/index.html


Disney's House of Mouse is an American animated television series, produced by Walt Disney Television Animation (now Disney Television Animation), that originally aired from 2001 to 2002. On September 2, 2002, an all night marathon of this show titled "Night of 1000 Toons" aired on Toon Disney. Disney's House of Mouse is a spin-off of the popular short-lived Disney series Mickey Mouse Works, and featured many Mouse Works shorts as well as new shorts created specifically for the spin-off series.



Contents


1 Premise
2 Characters
3 House of Mouse locations
4 Production
5 Episodes

5.1 Awards and nominations


6 References
7 External links



Premise
The basic premise is that Mickey Mouse and his friends run a dinner theater club called the "House of Mouse" in downtown Toontown, which shows Disney cartoons as part of its floor shows. Located at a corner of an intersection on Toontown's Main Street, the club is considered a very popular destination by the local populace. Some episodes have specific themes, with cartoons to fit that episode's theme. The theme is usually not beneficial to at least one character, usually Donald.[1]
Many characters from Disney animated films (such as Aladdin, Pinocchio, Peter Pan, The Little Mermaid, Hercules, and many more) have appeared on House of Mouse, mostly as patrons and guest star performers. The show is notable for including many relatively obscure and otherwise rarely used Disney characters, often with speaking parts for the very first time. Notably, Li'l Bad Wolf and April, May and June, who had appeared very often in Disney comic books but never before in an animated cartoon, finally made their animated debuts on House of Mouse. The show also featured some cameos by characters created for other television cartoons and theme park attractions, but these appearances were few and far between.
Each episode explores the comical mishaps of Mickey and his associates running the club, which are used as wraparounds for Disney cartoons (some of which are classic theatrical cartoons from the 1930s, 1940s and 1950s, but most of which are reruns from Mickey Mouse Works).
Characters

Mickey Mouse (voiced by Wayne Allwine): Mickey Mouse is an entertainment superstar and general manager/co-owner/master of ceremonies of the House of Mouse. Mickey is most visible as the club's flamboyant theater host and, in practice, leaves most of the club's management to the other staff.
Minnie Mouse (voiced by Russi Taylor): Minnie Mouse is Mickey's girlfriend, show planner and bookkeeper. Minnie is responsible for much of the club's day-to-day administration. Her cool, rational personality has kept the club running in times of crisis.
Donald Duck (voiced by Tony Anselmo): Donald Duck is Mickey's best friend and assistant manager/co-owner of the House of Mouse. Donald is responsible for the overall customer service at the club and attends to the needs of the club's VIP guests. He secretly covets Mickey's fame and position at the club and tries to use every opportunity to usurp the top job but his guilty conscience prevents him from following through with his plans.
Daisy Duck (voiced by Tress MacNeille): Daisy Duck is Donald's girlfriend and reservation clerk. Somewhat frivolous, Daisy harbors ambitions to perform on-stage at the club with various acts.
Goofy (voiced by Bill Farmer): Goofy is Mickey and Donald's friend, Max's father and head waiter of the club. Clumsy yet lovable, Goofy manages the club's restaurant operations.
Pluto (voiced by Bill Farmer): Pluto is Mickey's pet dog and club mascot.
Horace Horsecollar (voiced by Bill Farmer): Horace is Mickey's long-time friend and technician. Horace runs and maintains the club's technical equipment including lights, loudspeakers and video players.
Clarabelle Cow (voiced by April Winchell): Clarabelle is Minnie's long-time friend and gossip columnist. Clarabelle collects gossip and rumors from all over Toontown for her talk show at the club. Her gossip has occasionally lead to problems for the club's staff.
Max Goof (voiced by Jason Marsden): Max Goof is Goofy's son and valet parking attendant.
Huey, Dewey, and Louie (voiced by Tony Anselmo): Huey, Dewey and Louie are Donald's three nephews and a house band with alternating names such as "The Quackstreet Boys", "Quackwork", "Kid Duck" and "The Splashing Pumpkins".
Gus Goose (voiced by Frank Welker): Gus Goose is Donald's cousin and executive chef of the club. A notorious glutton, Gus sometimes eats the food he prepares for the guests just before it is served.
Magic Mirror (voiced by Tony Jay): Magic Mirror is a magical artifact and on-site consultant. Mickey and his friends sometimes ask for advice from the Magic Mirror on a variety of issues. He is also available for queries from the club's guests. Unsurprisingly, the Evil Queen can sometimes be found staring at the Mirror.
Mike (voiced by Rod Roddy): Mike is a talking microphone and announcer. He usually assists Mickey in presenting and ending events on-stage nightly.
Penguin waiters: The penguin waiters are the waiting staff of the club. According to an advertisement at the club, they are also available for hire on a temporary basis.
Animated brooms: The brooms are the janitors of the club.
Pete (voiced by Jim Cummings): Pete is the club's greedy landlord, who often attempts to shut the theater down for his own personal gain by sabotaging the show, since Mickey's contract states that the club stays open only for as long as the show goes on.

House of Mouse locations
Below are descriptions of the areas within the club itself.
Location

The club at the beginning of the opening credits is said to be located at "Main Street"--no doubt that of a Disneyland or Disneyworld.

Foyer

The front hall of the club is accessible via glass double doors from the street. Here, guests may converse among themselves or with the Magic Mirror that is located just within the entrance. There is also a small lounge for guests waiting to be seated. Donald can usually be found here greeting visitors personally; often with a handshake. Daisy works at a reception desk situated just outside the restaurant/theater area, helping guests to book reservations or assist with any requests they may have. Outside, Max Goof assists visitors in parking their cars at a nearby lot owned by the club.

Restaurant / Theater

One of the busiest areas of the club, this wide, spacious area has at least thirty tables that can seat over 120 people. Given the wide variety of clientele at the club, which includes Willie the Giant and Elliott the Dragon, the amount of seating at the club could vary wildly at times. Goofy and the penguin waiters take orders and deliver various dishes, ranging from conventional to outlandish, to the guests. At the far end of the area is a stage where performances of all sorts are conducted, including that of Huey, Dewey and Louie. There is also a huge TV screen in the stage background to show cartoons. Mickey often hosts the night's events on-stage.

Backstage

This area behind the stage is restricted only to club staff and performers hired by the club. Located here are staff offices, dressing rooms, storage rooms and an employee rest area. This area has direct access to the club's kitchen. The back entrance to the club and the door to the prop room are also located here. Minnie is often seen here using a PDA to assist in keeping the night's schedule on track or directing guest star performers to the stage.

Kitchen

All types of ingredients and cooking equipment can be found here to cater to the wide and, often, exotic palates of the club's clientele. There is also a cold storage room to store fresh meat and other perishable foods. Gus Goose works here nightly to prepare various dishes for the guests, but he sometimes eats said dishes before they reach the tables.

Control Room

From this room, located behind and above the restaurant/theater area, much of the technical equipment at the club is operated. The club's collection of cartoons is stored here as well. Through a window that overlooks the restaurant/theater area, Horace operates the lights, the loudspeakers and various record players (for example, DVD or VHS players) to show cartoons at Minnie's direction.

Prop Room

Perhaps the most interesting area of the club, the prop room consists of a cavernous basement much larger than the club itself. Props from all of Disney animation can be found here, including magical items such as Genie's lamp and the Black Cauldron. The prop room is so large that one could get lost for days unless one took Pluto along as a guide. However, Mickey and his friends usually have little trouble navigating in the prop room.

Production
The show was produced by Walt Disney Television, and originally aired from 2001 to 2003, running for 52 episodes. The show is one of many Disney cartoon series made in the widescreen HD format.
House of Mouse aired on One Saturday Morning on ABC. It reran from September 3, 2002 to February 4, 2006 on Disney Channel. The show ceased broadcast on U.S. television on February 6, 2009, after being aired for the last time on Toon Disney before becoming Disney XD.
The theme song is performed by Brian Setzer.
Episodes
Main article: List of Disney's House of Mouse episodes
Awards and nominations


Year
Nominee/work
Award
Result


2001
House of Mouse
Annie Award for Outstanding Achievement in a Daytime Animated Television Production
Nominated


2002
Chris Roszak (background artist) at American Broadcasting Company (ABC)
Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Individual in Animation
Won


2002
Jason Oliver (music editor) and Liz Lachman (scoring editor) for episodes "Pit Crew" and "Golf Nut Donald".
Motion Picture Sound Editors Golden Reel Award for Best Sound Editing in Television - Music, Episodic Animation
Nominated


2003
Corey Burton as the voice of "Ludwig Von Drake".
Annie Award for Outstanding Voice Acting in an Animated Television Production
Won


References



^ "Bob The Builder; Disney's House Of Mouse; Jackie Chan Adventures; Static Shock; X-Men: Evolution". Entertainment Weekly. January 26, 2001. Retrieved 2010-10-23. 



External links

Disney's House of Mouse on IMDb
Disney's House of Mouse at TV.com
Disney's House of Mouse at The Big Cartoon DataBase
The Encyclopedia of Disney Animated Shorts
Character List by Whatsits Galore







v
t
e


Disney's Mickey MouseWorks and House of Mouse



Episodes



Mickey MouseWorks episodes
House of Mouse episodes





Films



Mickey's Magical Christmas: Snowed in at the House of Mouse (2001)
Mickey's House of Villains (2002)












v
t
e


ABC Kids



Disney's
One Saturday Morning
(1997–2002)



101 Dalmatians: The Series
Buzz Lightyear of Star Command
Doug
DuckTales
Even Stevens
Hercules
Disney's House of Mouse
Jungle Cubs
Lizzie McGuire
Lloyd in Space
Mary-Kate and Ashley in Action!
Mickey Mouse Works
Pepper Ann
Recess
Sabrina: The Animated Series
Science Court
Teacher's Pet
Teamo Supremo
The New Adventures of Winnie the Pooh
The Bugs Bunny and Tweety Show
The Weekenders





ABC Kids
(2002–2011)



Even Stevens (2002–2005)
Fillmore! (2002–2004)
Hannah Montana (2006–2011)
Kim Possible (2002–2006)
Lilo & Stitch: The Series (2003–2006)
Lizzie McGuire (2002–2005)
NBA Inside Stuff (2002–2004)
Phil of the Future (2004–2006)
Power Rangers (2002–2010)
Recess (2002–2004)
Teamo Supremo (2002–2003)
That's So Raven (2003–2011)
The Buzz on Maggie (2005–2006)
The Emperor's New School (2006–2011)
The Proud Family (2002–2006)
The Replacements (2006–2011)
The Suite Life of Zack & Cody (2005–2011)
W.I.T.C.H. (2004–2005)





Related topics



Children's programming on the American Broadcasting Company
Disney's One Too
Disney Channel Saturday Mornings (Toonin' Saturday)
Jambalaya Studios
Disney Television Animation










 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Disney%27s_House_of_Mouse&oldid=811953756"					
Categories: 2000s American animated television series2000s American comedy television series2000s American television series2001 American television series debuts2003 American television series endingsABC KidsAmerican Broadcasting Company network showsAmerican children's animated comedy television seriesAmerican children's animated fantasy television seriesAnimation anthology seriesCrossover animationCrossover filmsDisney Channel showsDonald Duck television seriesMickey Mouse television seriesTelevision series by Disney Television AnimationTelevision shows set in the United StatesTelevision spin-offsHidden categories: Wikipedia indefinitely semi-protected pagesArticles needing additional references from March 2013All articles needing additional references 
