Dominion (TV series) - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Dominion





Genre



Apocalypticism
Supernatural
Action





Created by
Vaun Wilmott


Based on
Legion
by Peter Schink
Scott Stewart


Starring



Christopher Egan
Tom Wisdom
Roxanne McKee
Luke Allen-Gale
Shivani Ghai
Rosalind Halstead
Anthony Head
Alan Dale
Carl Beukes
Kim Engelbrecht





Country of origin
United States


Original language(s)
English


No. of seasons
2


No. of episodes
21 (list of episodes)


Production


Executive producer(s)



David Lancaster
Michel Litvack
Tom Lieber
Todd Slavkin
Darren Swimmer
Scott Stewart
Vaun Wilmott





Location(s)
Cape Town, South Africa


Production company(s)



Universal Cable Productions
FanFare Productions
Film Afrika
Bold Films
Sony Pictures Television





Distributor
NBCUniversal Television Distribution


Release


Original network
Syfy


Original release
June 19, 2014 (2014-06-19) – October 1, 2015 (2015-10-01)


External links


Official website
www.syfy.com/dominion


Dominion is an American apocalyptic supernatural action television series created by Vaun Wilmott. It is loosely based on the 2010 film Legion, written by Peter Schink and Scott Stewart. In December 2013, Syfy ordered a pilot episode and the series premiered on the American cable television network Syfy on June 19, 2014.[1] The show was filmed in Cape Town, South Africa. Stewart served as series executive producer, as well as director of the pilot episode, written by Wilmott.[2]
It was renewed for a 13 episode second season on September 25, 2014, which premiered on July 9, 2015 and concluded on October 1, 2015.[3][4] On October 13, 2015, Syfy canceled Dominion after two seasons.[5]



Contents


1 Synopsis
2 Cast

2.1 Main

2.1.1 Season 1
2.1.2 Season 2




3 Episodes
4 Reception
5 References
6 External links



Synopsis[edit]
God vanishes and in his absence the archangel Gabriel and his army of lower angels wage war against mankind, believing them to be the cause of God's absence. Although most higher angels remain neutral, Gabriel has convinced the lower angels, the "dogs of Heaven," called "eight-balls" by humans for their black eyes, to fight alongside him. Twenty-five years later, mankind survives in a few fortified cities. The Archangel Michael has chosen to side with humanity against Gabriel, living among humans in the fortified city of Vega (once Las Vegas) until the time a prophesied savior appears to save mankind.[6]
Cast[edit]
Main[edit]

Christopher Egan as Sgt. 1st Class Alex Lannon: A young and often rebellious V2 soldier in Vega's Archangel Corps who discovers he is the unlikely savior of humanity, known as "The Chosen One", and the central figure of Vega's dominant official religion, known as "Saviorism".
Tom Wisdom as Archangel Michael: A legendary warrior known throughout history as the greatest of the archangels, Michael was the only angel to take humanity's side during The Extermination War, turning against his own kind, and was instrumental in defeating his brother Gabriel and saving what was left of mankind. He is Vega's protector and commander of the Archangel Corps.
Roxanne McKee as Lady Claire Riesen: A teacher to orphan children and believer in Saviorism, Claire is Alex's lover. Originally Vega's princess and heir to her father's seat, Claire later ascends as ruler of Vega as Lady of the City.
Luke Allen-Gale as William Whele: Vega's Principate, William was the religious leader of the Church of The Savior, the religion that has grown since The Extermination War, all based around the concept of The Chosen One. William is secretly loyal to Gabriel and leader of his Black Acolytes in Vega.
Kim Engelbrecht as Sgt. Noma Banks (recurring, season 1; main cast, season 2): A sergeant in Vega's Archangel Corps, Noma is Alex's friend and fellow soldier, who maintains a casual sexual relationship with him. Noma is secretly a higher angel loyal to Michael, assigned by him to watch over Alex. She's revealed later in season 2 to be a follower of Lucifer.
Shivani Ghai as Arika/Evelyn: The beautiful and wily Queen of Helena, a distant and mysterious fortified city, Evelyn originally came to Vega as "Arika" – supposedly the consort and wife of Queen Evelyn and a diplomat who is part of a negotiating party. Evelyn's true agendas are deceptive, secretive and mysterious to the residents of Vega. Evelyn acts to maintain the peace between Vega and Helena, maneuvering throughout Vega's leadership with grace and skill.
Rosalind Halstead as Senator Becca Thorn (season 1): One of the Senate's consuls, the head of House Thorn and Riesen's confidant, Becca is one of the most powerful leaders in Vega, overseeing all scientific and medical personnel in the city.
Carl Beukes as Archangel Gabriel (recurring, season 1; main cast, season 2): An archangel and enemy of mankind, Michael's "twin" (in the hierarchy of angels) and the unstable but masterfully manipulative leader of the angels in the war against humanity, Gabriel is responsible for pushing humanity to the brink of extinction after God's disappearance - his aim is to exterminate mankind, believing this will bring God back.
Anthony Head as Senator David Whele: Vega's Secretary of Commerce, one of the Senate's consuls, the head of House Whele and William's father. David is the chief of administrator of Vega and the second most powerful leader in the city, responsible for keeping every government department running while the Lord commands the military. A ruthless and cunning political operator, David is an ambitious power broker, and an utterly ruthless and narcissistic politician, who is always on the hunt to keep or grow his power by any means necessary. Before the war, David was a devotedly faithful televangelist, but he lost his faith when the angels descended from Heaven and his family was killed by the Possessed.
Alan Dale as Gen. Edward Riesen: Vega's Lord of the City, the head of House Riesen and Claire's father. Riesen is Vega's selfless ruler and military leader who remains a paragon of strength and duty, despite his failing health. Before the war, Riesen was a civilian accountant who studied military history - during the opening hours of the Extermination War, he took a dead general's uniform and name, later leading humanity to victory.

Season 1[edit]

Langley Kirkwood as Jeep Hanson: Alex's adoptive father and Charlie's husband (from Legion), Jeep was a hero of Vega long presumed dead in The Extermination War, and known publicly as Vega's "prophet" for The Chosen One.
Jonathan Howard as Sgt. Ethan Mack: A sergeant in Vega's Archangel Corps who works as a guard for House Whele, and Noma and Alex's best friend and fellow soldier.
Betsy Wilke as Bixby: A young V1 orphan, Bixby barely eked out an existence in Vega, but was then granted the protection of House Riesen, as well as a greatly improved standard of living.
Anton David Jeftha as Furiad: One of the higher angels who have joined Gabriel in his war against humanity, Furiad is Noma's former lover and leader of Gabriel's High Guards.
Katrine De Candole as Archangel Uriel: An archangel, Michael and Gabriel's sister and Raphael's "twin" (in the hierarchy of angels), Uriel resurfaces after years underground, a new player of uncertain intentions and loyalties. Her sly, scheming tendencies make her a bit of a loose cannon, and both of her brothers call her insane.
Kevin Otto as Louis: A neutral higher angel and a refugee from The Extermination War, Louis was a mild-mannered grocer living and working in Vega as a vendor in the marketplace.
Amy Bailey as Clementine Riesen: Riesen's wife and Claire's mother, Clementine is now one of the Possessed angels, kept by Riesen living at the abandoned Luxor hotel. She retained enough of her human memories to maintain a clandestine relation with Riesen, although it was entirely forbidden and put her at extreme risk, as she would be condemned by both her own kind and the humans of Vega.
Tyrone Keogh as Lt. Vince: A security guard for House Whele.
Kenneth Fok as Capt. Finch: A captain in Vega's Archangel Corps, and Alex, Noma and Ethan's firm and unforgiving superior officer.
Danny Keogh as Senator Thomas Frost: One of Vega's senators, Frost is a leader of Vega and is responsible for the city’s "Agritowers", in which much of the food is grown. One of the city's founding fathers, Frost is a powerful believer in the coming of The Chosen One, and is an honest politician allied with Riesen and Michael against David Whele, valuing the truth above all else.
Fiona Ramsay as Senator Blanch Romero: One of Vega's senators, Romero is one of the leaders of Vega and is responsible for the vitally important nuclear reactor that powers the city. A shrewd politician, Romero has aligned herself with David Whele and against Riesen (when the political winds dictate it).
Luam Staples as Roan: Originally appearing as a mysterious child savant, Roan accompanied Arika and her retinue of women from Helena to Vega. Favored by Evelyn, the leader of Helena, the silent boy was suspected to be far more than he seemed. Roan is revealed to be one of the higher angels who have joined Gabriel in his war against humanity.
Julie Hartley as Felicia Aldreen: Claire's servant at House Riesen, Felicia was originally a neutral higher angel and a refugee from The Extermination War, though she later sided secretly with Gabriel.

Season 2[edit]

Nicholas Bishop as Gates Foley: A brilliant but troubled military genius who helped build Vega into the stronghold it has become. Gates is an engineer and an old friend of Riesen and harbors romantic desire for Claire, and maintains the systems that power the city. He is an MIT alumnus and a die-hard Boston Red Sox fan, using the 2004 ALCS as encouragement to solve complex problems.
Simon Merrells as Julian: The cunning and powerful leader of New Delphi, Julian is a cryptic man with motives as questionable as his past and will go to any lengths to protect his city. It is later revealed Julian is a Dyad; a symbiosis between a human and a higher angel, controlled by the spirit of Lyrae, a higher angel killed by Michael centuries ago for horrific atrocities against humans during the siege of Sodom and Gomorrah, and his spirit banished to become a hybrid.
Christina Chong as Zoe Holloway: A member of Vega’s Archangel Corps who deserted her position, unable to tolerate guarding V6s. Zoe is bold, fierce and scrappy and joins the V1 rebel faction to overthrow Claire's government.
Olivia Mace as Laurel: The steadfast leader of Mallory, Alabama – a small southern town of survivors who have inexplicably managed to insulate themselves from the fallout of The Extermination War, Laurel is deeply devout to her religious faith and is unwavering in her resolve. Unknown to her, her town was saved by Lucifer who is using them to return.
Luke Tyler as Pete: An energetic, bright, dynamic, and eternally optimistic teenager who grew up in Missouri before the apocalypse. Pete was a Possessed angel, until Alex performed an eviction that restored his humanity. He wakes up on the road in the battle-torn world, with no memories of his possession, but retaining his peaceful past. He is later repossessed by the same lesser angel.
Diarmaid Murtagh as Wes Fuller: A resident of Mallory who is loyal to Laurel but distrustful of Michael.
Hakeem Kae-Kazim as The Prophet: A mysterious figure that appears to Noma in the woods. His image appears in the church at Mallory, and he has the power to set the Possessed on fire with a gesture, consuming them from within.[7] He is later revealed to be working with Lucifer and trying to bring him back to life.
Reine Swart as Charlie: Alex's mother, killed by Noma, while protecting Alex as a baby.

Episodes[edit]
Main article: List of Dominion episodes


Season
Episodes
Originally aired


First aired
Last aired



1
8
June 19, 2014 (2014-06-19)
August 7, 2014 (2014-08-07)



2
13
July 9, 2015 (2015-07-09)
October 1, 2015 (2015-10-01)


Reception[edit]
Dominion has been met with mixed reviews. On Metacritic, the show holds a score of 48 out of 100, based on 13 critics, indicating "mixed or average" reviews.[8] On Rotten Tomatoes, the show holds a rating of 38%.[9]
References[edit]


^ "Syfy Announces Premiere Dates for 'Defiance' and 'Dominion'". TV By the Numbers. Retrieved March 28, 2014. 
^ Goldberg, Lesley (December 4, 2013). "'Dominion' Ordered to Series at Syfy". The Hollywood Reporter. Nielsen Business Media. Retrieved March 28, 2014. 
^ "Dominion Renewed For Season 2 By Syfy!". Seriable. September 25, 2014. Retrieved September 25, 2014. 
^ "Dominion TV show on Syfy: season 2 coming in July". TV Series Finale. 
^ "'Dominion' Canceled After 2 Seasons By Syfy". Deadline. October 13, 2015. Retrieved October 13, 2015. 
^ Leane, Rob (June 22, 2014). "Dominion episode 1 review: Pilot". Den of Geek. Retrieved July 17, 2014. 
^ "Kim Engelbrecht on Twitter". Twitter. 
^ "Dominion: Season 1". Metacritic. Retrieved July 2, 2014. 
^ "Dominion: Season 1 (2014)". Rotten Tomatoes. Retrieved September 23, 2014. 


External links[edit]

Official website
Dominion on IMDb
Dominion at TV.com





 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Dominion_(TV_series)&oldid=811977552"					
Categories: Post-apocalyptic television series2010s American television series2014 American television series debuts2015 American television series endingsAmerican action television seriesAmerican drama television seriesAngels in televisionApocalyptic television seriesEnglish-language television programsGay-related television programsSyfy original programsTelevision programs based on filmsTelevision series by Universal TelevisionTelevision shows set in the United StatesTelevision series by Sony Pictures Television 
