Extreme Makeover: Home Edition - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search







This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (September 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)





Extreme Makeover: Home Edition





Genre
Reality television series


Starring
Ty Pennington
Paul DiMeo
Alle Ghadban
Paige Hemmis
Tracy Hutson
Daniel Kucan
Tanya McQueen
Michael Moloney
Constance Ramos
Ed Sanders
Preston Sharp
Eduardo Xol
John Littlefield
Rib Hillis
Didiayer Snyder
Dawson Connor
Leigh Anne Tuohy
Jillian Harris
Xzibit


Country of origin
United States


No. of seasons
9


No. of episodes
200[1] (list of episodes)


Production


Producer(s)
Endemol USA


Running time
43 minutes (86 minutes for 2 part episodes)


Production company(s)
Base Camp Films
Hoosick Falls Productions
Endemol USA


Distributor
Greengrass Productions for ABC


Release


Original network
ABC


Picture format
480i (SDTV)


Original release
December 3, 2003 (2003-12-03) – December 17, 2012 (2012-12-17)


External links


Website
web.archive.org/web/20111215074335/http://abc.go.com/shows/extreme-makeover-home-edition


Extreme Makeover: Home Edition (EM:HE; sometimes informally referred to as Extreme Home Makeover[2][3]) is an American reality television series providing home improvements for less fortunate families and community schools. The show was hosted by former model, carpenter and veteran television personality Ty Pennington.
Each episode features a family that has faced some sort of recent or ongoing hardship such as a natural disaster or a family member with a life-threatening illness, in need of new hope. The show's producers coordinate with a local construction contractor, which then coordinates with various companies in the building trades for a makeover of the family's home. This includes interior, exterior and landscaping, performed in seven days while the family is on vacation (paid for by the show's producers) and documented in the episode. If the house is beyond repair, they replace it entirely. The show's producers and crew film set and perform the makeover but do not pay for it. The materials and labor are donated. Many skilled and unskilled volunteers assist in the rapid construction of the house.
EM:HE is considered a spin-off of Extreme Makeover, an earlier series providing personal makeovers (often including plastic surgery) to selected individuals. Unusual for a spin-off, Home Edition outlasted its mother show by several seasons. This show displays extreme changes to help recreate someone's space. However, the format differs considerably; in the original Extreme Makeover, for instance, participants were not necessarily chosen based on any recent hardship, whereas the family's backstory is an important component of Home Edition. EM:HE also has similarities to other home renovation series such as Trading Spaces, on which Pennington was previously a key personality.
The series was produced by Endemol USA (the people behind Big Brother, Fear Factor, Deal or No Deal, Wipeout, and other reality shows) in association with Disney-ABC Television Group's Greengrass Television. The Executive Producers were Brady Connell and George Verschoor.
The program originally aired on Sunday evenings but was moved to Friday nights as of October 21, 2011. Upon the airing of its final episode in series form, and for the 2012 special holiday run, it remained ABC's last series to air solely in 4:3 standard definition and never converted to a high definition or widescreen presentation.
On December 15, 2011, ABC announced that Extreme Makeover: Home Edition would end its run on January 13, 2012. It will, however, continue to air as a special on the network.[4]



Contents


1 Overview
2 Production
3 Format
4 Extreme Makeover Team
5 Spin-off
6 "After the Storm"
7 Reaction and criticism
8 American television ratings
9 International versions
10 References
11 External links



Overview[edit]
Extreme Makeover: Home Edition premiered as a thirteen-part special on Wednesday, December 3, 2003, and had its official series premiere on Sunday February 15, 2004. It was among ABC's top-rated series and has become far more popular than the original Extreme Makeover, which struggled in the ratings through its last two seasons and quietly ended with its episodes burned off wholesale in July 2007. The show ranked 41st in its first season, averaging 10.6 million viewers per episode, with the pilot episode bringing in 12 million viewers. However its ratings soared thereafter with the second season entering the top 20, finishing 15th for the year, averaging 15.8 million viewers per episode. The next four seasons each ranked at least in the top 30, with seasons two and three ranking in the top 20, and seasons four and five ranking in the top 25. The sixth season, however, fell out of the top 35, and ranked 38th, averaging 10.3 million viewers per episode. The seventh season ranked 39th, averaging 9.1 million viewers. By season eight, the show barely ranked in the top 50 with just over 8.5 million viewers per episode on average. The last season ranked below the top 100 (finishing at #101) and averaged only 5.8 million viewers per episode.
Series reruns began airing on TV Land on Tuesday August 7, 2007, making it the youngest non-original show to air on the network. The show is also in syndication on CMT.
The show is hosted by Ty Pennington, formerly a carpenter on the show Trading Spaces. The series is devoted to rebuilding families' homes when the family is in need of new hope.
During the 2005–2006 season, the show went to areas hit by Hurricane Katrina and helped communities to rebuild themselves with help from other organizations.
The show also had a series of specials that later became a regular series during the 2004–2005 television season entitled Extreme Makeover Home Edition: How'd They Do That? It was a short-lived spin-off of Extreme Makeover: Home Edition that featured extra behind-the-scenes footage of what had happened in that week's episode. An occasional special would feature The Muppets, property of ABC, engaging in comical scenes with the design team. However, their scenes were usually filmed after the renovation.
Production[edit]




Host Ty Pennington during an episode shooting, January 2006.


Two episodes in two different cities are shot at the same time (a few days apart), using two different production crews. There are also two groups of designers. Ty Pennington flies back and forth between the cities to do the "door knock", the braveheart march, and the "reveal", as well as to finish up work on his projects, which he mentions and gives walk-throughs in his magazine. The amount of work that Ty and the design team put into the house itself and the projects they take on depend mostly on the amount of filming needed to be done. In some circumstances, such as smaller makeovers or makeovers scheduled to be two-hour episodes, the lead designers lay out a general idea for their projects, and the show's backup designers take over. Generally, the lead designers are notified in advance of the makeover recipients, to enable them to start their plans ahead of time. At several makeovers, they have been criticized for never doing any work at all, and just being there to put on a show. In 2007, during the makeover for the Carter Family in Billings, Montana, a local radio DJ accused Pennington of using a spray can of grease on his face to make it look like he was really working, only to be confronted over the air by Pennington himself, who called in from the construction site.[5] The largest piece of evidence to prove the design team's contribution to the house and the family is a severe hand injury that Ed Sanders received during a 2006 makeover in Ohio for the family of Jason Thomas. While creating a wood carving of the American flag, Sanders removed part of the guard for a hand-held wood grinder, which led to him slicing one of his hands open.[6] Sanders took a leave of absence for nearly an entire season to recover. Pennington works on the show over 240 days out of the year, while the remaining designers work in shifts. During the production season, crew members work for two weeks, then are off for one week. The show usually begins shooting in June and goes through March or April, leaving one to two months of downtime. During the off-season, crew members occasionally work on pre-season episodes. Location managers work constantly, often spending a month in a city before selecting it as the next site.[citation needed]
Format[edit]




Michelle Obama participates in the filming of an "Extreme Makeover Home Edition" episode, White House, 2011.


ABC received thousands of applications from families in need, and the team said that it was extremely hard to filter through the stories and choose only one of them. The families they looked for must have met two criteria: first, they must have been truly deserving and in need of the makeover, and second, they must have been the kind of people who gave something of themselves back to their community. The main theme of the show was advocacy, as each family that was selected helped to address a wide range of issues in American society. The show had helped families who had been victimized by a form of loss or tragic event, experienced a certain hardship and most of all, advocated on ways to treat, face and prevent such losses. The show helped families of veterans, single parents, and families with children who had illnesses ranging from childhood cancers to HIV/AIDS, as well as children with mental illnesses and disabilities such as autism. The show helped families victimized by natural disasters such as tornadoes and hurricanes, as well as families who had dealt with house fires and mold contamination. Other instances included families who had either lost loved ones or had loved ones injured in car accidents (including alcohol-related incidents), domestic violence, gang-related crimes and drug abuse. Every episode made a family stand as an advocate of awareness of such problems.
The majority of episodes were one hour; however, in some instances (mainly if complications were involved, or if the makeover involved more than just the family home) the episode was aired as a two-parter and started at 7 PM Eastern Time (one hour ahead of its normal 8 PM Eastern Time slot). In the UK, some of the two-hour episodes aired as one single program instead of as two separate parts.
Most shows in the first three seasons began with a shot of Pennington in the team's bus saying, "I'm Ty Pennington, and the renovation starts right now!" The exceptions were those episodes which featured a guest host in his place.




US Navy Sailors (CVN 71) help build a home in an episode of "Extreme Home Makeover: Home Edition", Virginia Beach, Va., 2011.


In the fourth and fifth seasons, the opening shot was of Ty in a location iconic of the state the episode was in, and a declaration of what state the episode was in was added to the tagline. Then, the chosen family was briefly profiled; their nomination video was shown to the team (and to the television audience).
Ty then brought the team together in a huddle and led them in a chant of "Let's do it!" Next, Ty and the design team visited the family's home and proceeded to give the family a "wake-up call" (courtesy of Ty's infamous bullhorn) by shouting "Good Morning [family's name] family!" then introduced each family member. The team then went throughout the house, finding out about the family's interests as design inspiration.
The family was then sent off on a one-week vacation (where applicable, airfare was provided by Southwest Airlines, whose involvement was noted at the end of the show, mostly Disneyland) while the house was renovated or demolished, depending on its condition and the family's needs. One episode in season three did not include a vacation because a family's daughter was in isolation at a local hospital.[7] As the family took vacation, they received video messages via computer laptop from Pennington's camera. The videos displayed on the laptop were superimposed on broadcasts to avoid both screen glare and the requirement of paying advertising royalties on the software used in the videos.
Beginning with Season 3, the demolitions became quite creative: the team had used falling trees, tanks, and even monster trucks to accomplish the task where needed. In 2007, they used dynamite to blow up one family's old house in Wyoming. In 2008, a rather innovative episode showed Ty and his team rolling a five hundred pound bowling ball through the house to eventually demolish a family's "bowling-themed, Big Lebowski-inspired" bathroom.
A local home builder (sometimes two builders) and community volunteers began basic work (electrical, plumbing, roofing, and, if the house was demolished, framing a new one) while the design team began designing the creative aspects of the house. Once the basic work was completed, the design team then added the finishing touches. Ty selected a portion of the house to be his "secret room" (except in the case when the secret project took place in the backyard), which no one was allowed to view prior to final reveal (with one exception in Season 4, which involved a commercial kitchen; the health inspector had to approve the kitchen and issue the permit before it could be used). Shows often featured design team members making a trip to a local Sears store as well as special guest appearances. The IQAir Clean Air Team was often called in to provide ultra-clean air for families with special health issues.
At the end of the week, the family returned to their home to see cheering crowds and the view of their home blocked by a bus (for larger projects, two buses would block the home). When Ty and the family gave the order, originally, "Bus driver, hit it!" and later the much more famous, "Bus driver, move that bus!!" (or "those buses!!"), the family saw the end result of the team's efforts. Pennington's secret room was usually the last item featured on the show. Often, a child's bedroom, the parent's master bedroom or a business room received Pennington's special attention. Some episodes featured special gifts given to the family by outside parties. The show always ended with Ty saying, "There's only one thing left to say: welcome home [family's name] family, welcome home". This was often followed by applause from the family, design team, and whoever else was there.
Extreme Makeover Team[edit]


Cast
Role


Ty Pennington
Host/Design Team Leader/Carpentry


Kermit the Frog
Host/Design Team Leader/Carpentry (one episode)


Paul DiMeo
Carpentry (Joined the Show in Season 1)


Paige Hemmis
Carpentry (Joined the Show in Season 1)


Tracy Hutson
Shopping/Style (Joined the Show in Season 1)


Tanya McQueen
Interior Design (Joined the Show in Season 3 and left the show after season 5)


Michael Moloney
Interior Design/Glamour (Joined the Show in Season 1)


Ed Sanders
Carpentry (Joined the Show in Season 2)


Preston Sharp
Exteriors/Big Ideas (Joined the show in season 1 and left show after season 4)


Eduardo Xol
Landscaping (Joined the show in season 2 and left show after season 8)


John Littlefield
Carpentry (Joined the show in season 4)


Constance Ramos
Architect (Joined the show in season 1 and left show during season 3)


Rib Hillis
Carpentry (Joined the show in season 5 and left show after season 6)


Didiayer Snyder
Design (Joined the show in season 5 and left show after season 7)


Dawson Connor
Design (Joined the show in season 1 and left show after season 1)


Alle Ghadban
Design (Joined the show in season 1 and left show after season 1)


Daniel Kucan
Interior Design (Joined the show in season 3 and left show after season 3)


Jillian Harris
(Joined the show in season 8)


Xzibit
Designer (Joined the Show in Season 7)


Leigh Anne Tuohy
Designer (Joined the Show in Season 8 and left show after Season 8)


Sabrina Soto
Designer (Joined the Show in Season 9)


Jeff Dye
Designer (as of October 28, 2011 episode)


Spin-off[edit]
Main article: Extreme Makeover: Home Edition: How'd They Do That?
Extreme Makeover: Home Edition: How'd They Do That? was a short-lived show that featured extra behind-the-scenes footage of what had happened in that week's episode.
"After the Storm"[edit]
Beginning on March 23, 2006, ABC featured a four-week special episode series, "Extreme Makeover: Home Edition – After the Storm". The series featured the rebuilding (in part) of communities destroyed by Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, and Wilma. See below for episode listings.
Reaction and criticism[edit]






This section may lend undue weight to certain ideas, incidents, or controversies. Please help to create a more neutral presentation, with details put in their proper context. Discuss and resolve this issue before removing this message. (November 2012)



Since the show premiered in December 2003, one of the show's strongest supporters was the Parents Television Council which not only gave the show its coveted "Seal of Approval", but also named it the most family-friendly series on network television on its website throughout its run and frequently named it the best show of the week. The show was also praised by the PTC for promoting altruistic ideals such as helping others in need and thinking of others. At every makeover, thousands of people participate by donating their time, money, and help. By the beginning of the show's seventh season, an estimated 500,000 Americans had helped with the show.[citation needed]
However, while the show has usually earned positive reviews and even earned two Emmy Awards, it has often been criticized by more conservative viewers for unnecessary contributions and glorifying excessive suburban lifestyles, such as in a Mother Jones article that questioned giving a 6-bedroom, 7-bath, 7-television house to a family of 4 in Kingston, WA.[8] However, ABC countered this criticism by explaining that the reason for the house's large size was that it was designed with a dual purpose of functioning as a Bed and Breakfast.
In an article entitled "ABC's 'Extreme Exploitation'", The Smoking Gun published an e-mail sent on March 10, 2006, from an ABC employee to network affiliates, relaying a message from the program's casting agent detailing specific tragedies and rare illnesses sought by the show. Included were a "Muscular Dystrophy Child", a "Family who has multiple children w/ Down Syndrome (either adopted or biological)" and a child with Congenital insensitivity to pain with anhidrosis. This last request included a parenthetical remark stating, "There are only 17 known cases in US - let me know if one is in your town!"[9] This e-mail has led some major media networks and blogs to accuse the show of opportunism in seeking out the most sensational stories in a push for higher ratings.[10] [11]
Another criticism aimed at the show surrounds financial issues that some of the families have had after receiving the home makeover, the majority of which have been found to be grossly exaggerated or completely untrue altogether. The most common allegation is that most of the families have sold their houses due to their inability to pay for them, and some have gone into foreclosure. The most widely known case involved the Harper Family, who sometime after receiving a new house from the show placed a $450K Home Equity loan on the house and used the funds to start a construction business, which failed after the housing market crash in 2007. As a result, the loan went into default and the family faced foreclosure. A few other families, including the Wofford, Vardon and Marrero families, have had some struggles, but most sources specifically point out that these troubles have little to do with the show or the makeover, and more to do with the recession, often citing reasons such as job losses and failed business ventures.[12][13]
A major criticism of the show comes from viewers who believe the makeovers are overly extravagant and that the effort could be redirected to more productive areas. In several cases, once the makeover process is complete, the families are heavily scrutinized by neighbors in the towns or cities who claim that they didn't deserve the makeover.[citation needed] The Huber Family of South Range, Wisconsin, is one example of a family who received criticism from the residents in the vicinity of their home. For the season premiere makeover in August 2009, the show's staff and over 2,300 volunteers built a house for Howard Huber, a decorated firefighter, and his wife and two children. Almost immediately after the makeover, the family received several critical responses from people in the area, several of whom claimed the family did not have the right to the home makeover. In an article from the Duluth News Tribune, Jessie Huber stated that several people visited their home and stated the family did not deserve the home makeover. The criticisms escalated to a point where the Huber family felt it necessary to place visual warnings against trespassers, saying, "Please respect our privacy." In addition, the family enlisted the help of the Douglas County Sheriff, who lived right down the road from their home.[citation needed]
Another case involved the Tutweiler family of Chapman, Kansas, the family of an Iraq War Veteran who had lost their old home in a tornado. The Tutweilers received extremely negative criticism from their neighbors. In December 2009, the family put their home up for sale and made plans to move out of Kansas because of the scrutiny and ill feelings from their neighbors. According to Crystal Tutweiler, "We absolutely hate to leave the house, and we wish we could pick it up and take it with us, but it is not the house which makes you happy."[14]
The five children of the Higgins family, aged 14–21, filed a lawsuit against ABC after they were evicted by a family that had taken them in before the show came to renovate the family's house. The five kids "say that the producers took advantage of the family's hard-luck story and promised them new cars and other prizes to persuade them to participate in the program", according to the LA Times.[15] On July 17, 2007, Judge Paul Gutman ruled against the siblings, stating that the plaintiffs failed to prove their case.[16] The decision of the trial court was affirmed on appeal.[17]
Questions arose when Theresa "Momi" Akana was picked for the Extreme Makeover program for Hawaii. The Honolulu Advertiser investigated their tax records and found out that she and her husband each made over $100,000 in salary. Denise Cramsey, the executive producer of the show, responded with "I think Momi certainly fits the bill." She defended the pick by stating that they look beyond the family's finances and consider other factors, including family plight and contributions to the community.[18]
In 2006, Extreme Makeover Home Edition tore down Brian and Michelle Hassall's once modest Harrison County home and built the new sizable one in its place. Just months later, the couple put their nearly brand new, donated home up for sale. The Hassalls said the decision to sell their extreme home "wasn't an easy one", but they realized it was necessary due to rising medical bills.
American television ratings[edit]
Seasonal rankings (based on average total viewers per episode) of Extreme Makeover: Home Edition on ABC.


Season
Season premiere
Season finale
TV season
Ranking
Viewers
(in millions)



1

December 3, 2003
July 18, 2004
2003–2004
#41
10.63



2

September 26, 2004
May 22, 2005
2004–2005
#15
15.75



3

August 14, 2005
May 21, 2006
2005–2006
#19
14.71



4

September 17, 2006
May 20, 2007
2006–2007
#25
13.15



5

September 30, 2007
May 18, 2008
2007–2008
#22
12.89



6

September 28, 2008
May 17, 2009
2008–2009
#38
10.26



7

September 27, 2009
May 16, 2010
2009–2010
#39
9.11



8

September 26, 2010
May 15, 2011
2010–2011
#50
8.53



9

September 25, 2011
January 13, 2012
2011–2012
#101
5.83



10*

November 27, 2012
December 17, 2012
2012–2013
#83
5.39[19]


International versions[edit]
-


Country
Title
Broadcaster
Chef
Original run
Source(s)


 Argentina
Extreme Makeover: Home Edition Argentina
Telefe
Andres Kusnetzoff
November 11, 2013



 Bulgaria
Пълна промяна
Nova TV
Gala
September 17, 2007



 Czech Republic
Vítejte doma
Prima Cool
Czech dabing

[20]


 Italy
Extreme Makeover: Home Edition Italia
Canale 5
Alessia Marcuzzi
January 23, 2013 – present



 Israel
Extreme Makeover Israel
Channel 10
Amos Tamam
June 12, 2013 - 2014
[21]


 Netherlands
De Uitdaging
AVRO
Angela Groothuijzen
1990-1998



 Poland
Nasz nowy dom
Polsat
Katarzyna Dowbor
September 29, 2013
[22]


 Romania
Visuri la cheie
Pro TV
Dragoș Bucur
October 29, 2014
[23]


 Serbia
Radna akcija
Prva TV
Tamara Grujić
December 16, 2012
[24]


References[edit]


^ Total includes specials
^ "Extreme Home Makeover". Springfield News-Leader. Gannett Company. Retrieved July 18, 2015. 
^ Sadie Stein (April 7, 2010). "The Nasty Aftermath Of Extreme Home Makeover". Jezebel. Gawker Media. Retrieved July 18, 2015. 
^ Andreeva, Nellie (December 15, 2011). "ABC Cancels 'Extreme Makeover: Home Edition' As Regular Series, Will Air Specials". Deadline Hollywood. Retrieved December 15, 2011. 
^ "Ty Takes On Radio Taunter: I'm No "Jackass!"". http://www.tmz.com. Retrieved September 12, 2015.  External link in |work= (help)
^ January 22, 2007 Entry http://www.edsanders.net/ownWords.html
^ Extreme Makeover: Home Edition: The Official Companion Book
^ "This New House". Mother Jones. March 2005. Retrieved June 4, 2007. Extreme Makeover: Home Edition recently gave a 6-bedroom, 7-bath, 7-television house to a family of 4. 
^ "ABC's "Extreme" Exploitation". The Smoking Gun. March 27, 2006. Retrieved June 4, 2007. Makeover show loves sick kids, cancer patients, hate crime victims 
^ "The 'Extreme Makeover: Home Edition' Tragedy Wishlist". Gawker. March 27, 2006. Archived from the original on November 5, 2010. Retrieved October 25, 2010. The feel-good TV industry has never been more cutthroat, with the likes of Oprah, the Miracle Workers, and even Deal or No Deal's Howie Mandel locked in a pitched battle to lavish America's tragedy-afflicted souls with their own brand of televised redemption. Nowhere is this suffering-talent crunch felt more acutely than at ABC's genre-leading Extreme Makeover: Home Edition, where the casting department has assembled a wishlist of interesting diseases and tear-jerking hard knocks that they feel will help keep their series atop the Nielsen mountain during their new season. 
^ "Extreme Makeover or Extreme Exploitation?". MSNBC. March 31, 2006. 
^ Phil Butler (December 2, 2009). "Dr. Brian Wofford Needs a More Extreme Makeover". Everything PR. 
^ "Family's 'Extreme Makeover' Home Temporarily Saved". ABC 10 News. San Diego, CA. December 14, 2009. 
^ "'Makeover' home for sale". Topeka Capital-Journal. December 12, 2009. 
^ Dehnart, Andy (August 11, 2005). "Orphans sue ABC, family over Extreme Makeover: Home Edition episode". Reality Blurred. 
^ Walter Olson (July 22, 2007). "Judge rejects 'Extreme Makeover' lawsuit". Overlawyered.com. 
^ "Higgins v. Disney/ABC Internat. Television". FearNotLaw.com. March 18, 2009. 
^ Daysog, Rick (July 2, 2007). "'Makeover' home recipient earns $100K". Honolulu Advertiser. Retrieved December 20, 2007. 
^ Dominic Patten. "Full 2012-2013 TV Season Series Rankings". Deadline. Retrieved September 12, 2015. 
^ "Vitejte doma". iprima.cz (in Czech). 
^ "Extreme Makeover Israel". Nana 10 (in Hebrew). Retrieved 11 October 2013. 
^ "Nasz Nowy Dom - Oficjalna stronga programu telewizji Polsat". polsat.pl. Retrieved December 28, 2016. 
^ "Stiri de ultima ora, stiri online - Stirileprotv.ro". stirileprotv.ro. Retrieved September 12, 2015. 
^ "Radna akcija by Ceresit". Prva TV (in Serbian). Retrieved 31 August 2013. 


External links[edit]



Wikimedia Commons has media related to Extreme Makeover: Home Edition.



Official website
Extreme Makeover: Home Edition on IMDb
Extreme Makeover: Home Edition at TV.com
Extreme Makeover: Home Edition at TV Guide







v
t
e


Extreme Makeover: Home Edition



Cast



Ty Pennington
Paul DiMeo
Paige Hemmis
Tracy Hutson
Daniel Kucan
Tanya McQueen
Michael Moloney
Ed Sanders
Eduardo Xol
Rib Hillis
Didiayer Snyder
John Littlefield
Preston Sharp
Constance Ramos
Alle Ghadban
Dawson Connor
Xzibit
Leigh Anne Tuohy
Jillian Harris





Seasons



1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9





Franchises



Philippine Version (List of episodes)
Latin America Version (List of episodes)
Italian Version (List of episodes)





Related



Home Edition (Specials)
List of episodes
Endemol
Extreme Makeover
Extreme Weight Loss












v
t
e


Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Reality Program






American High (2001)
The Osbournes (2002)
Queer Eye for the Straight Guy (2004)
Extreme Makeover: Home Edition (2005)
Extreme Makeover: Home Edition (2006)
Kathy Griffin: My Life on the D-List (2007)
Kathy Griffin: My Life on the D-List (2008)
Intervention (2009)
Jamie Oliver's Food Revolution (2010)
Deadliest Catch (2011)
Undercover Boss (2012)
Undercover Boss (2013)










 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Extreme_Makeover:_Home_Edition&oldid=811606239"					
Categories: 2003 American television series debuts2012 American television series endings2000s American television series2010s American television seriesAmerican Broadcasting Company network showsAmerican reality television seriesHome renovation television seriesMakeover reality television seriesTelevision series by EndemolReality television spin-offsEnglish-language television programsPrimetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Reality Program winnersTelevision shows set in the United StatesTelevision series by Disney–ABC Domestic TelevisionHidden categories: CS1 errors: external linksCS1 Czech-language sources (cs)CS1 Hebrew-language sources (he)CS1 Serbian-language sources (sr)Articles needing additional references from September 2017All articles needing additional referencesUse mdy dates from June 2013All articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from January 2010Articles needing POV-check from November 2012All NPOV disputesArticles with unsourced statements from November 2011 
