Atlantic Television - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search








This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages)







The topic of this article may not meet Wikipedia's notability guidelines for companies and organizations. Please help to establish notability by citing reliable secondary sources that are independent of the topic and provide significant coverage of it beyond its mere trivial mention. If notability cannot be established, the article is likely to be merged, redirected, or deleted.
Find sources: "Atlantic Television" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (July 2010) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)









This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (November 2014) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)





(Learn how and when to remove this template message)




Atlantic Television


Type

Private company


Industry
Television
Video production


Founded
1997


Founder
Howard Gibbins


Headquarters
Manhattan, New York City,
New York, United States



Area served

Video production


Products
Production services


Owner
Chris Sanders


Website
www.atlantictv.com


Atlantic Television (also known as Atlantic TV and ATV) is a national television production and professional video services company headquartered in New York City. The company provides production support for leading broadcasters, corporations and production companies in every major city in North America. Atlantic Television provides production support for several hundred productions each year for producers making documentaries, reality shows, magazine shows, news programs, current affairs, promos, corporate communications projects, commercials and other television programs.
Atlantic TV provides local HD video and SD video equipment and services for PAL and NTSC projects, including camera crews; camera, lighting and grip equipment rental; and production personnel, studios, live trucks, and editing facilities.
Atlantic TV also produced the award-winning Discovery documentary Breaking the Code: The Race to Uncover the Secret of Life.
History[edit]
Atlantic Television was founded in 1997 by former BBC producer Howard Gibbins. In 1999 Howard Gibbins entered into partnership with Douglas Propp. Howard Gibbins founded Atlantic after working as a producer with the BBC in London and as a senior producer with the FOX network in New York. Before joining Atlantic TV, Doug Propp worked for CNN as it grew from a start-up into a major international network. He later became president of the documentary production company PPI, where he was an award-winning producer and director. The company initially provided production services in New York but then expanded to service provision in every major city in the USA and Canada.
External links[edit]

Atlantic Television's official website
Atlantic Television on Production Hub
Atlantic Television on Vimeo





 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Atlantic_Television&oldid=745401878"					
Categories: Companies based in ManhattanMedia companies established in 1997Television production companies of the United StatesPrivately held companies based in New York CityHidden categories: Articles with topics of unclear notability from July 2010All articles with topics of unclear notabilityArticles needing additional references from November 2014All articles needing additional referencesPages using infobox company with unsupported parameters 
