Electus - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search








This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages)







The topic of this article may not meet Wikipedia's notability guidelines for companies and organizations. Please help to establish notability by citing reliable secondary sources that are independent of the topic and provide significant coverage of it beyond its mere trivial mention. If notability cannot be established, the article is likely to be merged, redirected, or deleted.
Find sources: "Electus" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (June 2011) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)









This article reads like a press release or a news article or is entirely based on routine coverage. Please expand this article with properly sourced content to meet Wikipedia's quality standards, event notability guideline, or encyclopedic content policy. (November 2011)





(Learn how and when to remove this template message)




Electus


Type

Subsidiary


Industry
Television production
Distribution
Licensing
Multimedia


Founded
2009 (2009)


Headquarters
Los Angeles, California, United States



Key people

Chris Grant
(CEO)
Drew Buckley
(Co-Founder, COO & Head of Digital)
John Pollak
(President of Electus International)
Max Levenson
(VP, Current & Creative Development)
Stephanie Ward
(Director, Business and Legal Affairs)


Products
Television


Owner
IAC


Website
www.electus.com


Electus is a next generation studio enabling premium content creators to engage with advertising and technology partners at the inception of the creative process and partner on the finished product across a global and multi-platform distribution model.[1] Founded by Ben Silverman (former co-chairman of NBC Entertainment and chief executive officer of Reveille) and financed by Barry Diller’s IAC in 2009.[2] Since Electus’ launch, the company has announced several acquisitions and partnerships, as well as development deals with NBC, ABC, MTV, VH1, Facebook, Yahoo!, and AOL. In 2013, Electus took over College Humor/Dorkly and created Big Breakfast, the studio behind Adam Ruins Everything (TruTV), Middle of the Night Show (MTV), Fatal Decisions (Go90), Bad Internet (YouTube Red), Comedy Music Awards (IFC) and Hot Date (Pop).[3]



Contents


1 Production partners
2 Projects
3 References
4 External links



Production partners[edit]
As part of its inception, IAC partnered Electus with CollegeHumor, the comedy portal that has developed series both on the web and TV.[4]
In January 2010, Electus partnered with Jason Bateman and Will Arnett to launch a sponsor-driven advertising and digital production company, DumbDumb. Since DumbDumb's inception, it has launched branded campaigns including one for Orbit Gum,[5] and an online talk show on behalf of Denny's called "Always Open".[6]
In August 2010, Electus announced a production and distribution deal with 5x5 Media. 5x5 Media is headed by Craig Armstrong, Rick Ringbakk and Tod Mesirow, whose combined producer credits include Survivor, Amazing Race, Extreme Makeover: Home Edition, Jamie Oliver's Food Revolution and many more. As part of the deal, 5x5 Media will partner with Electus to both create and co-produce original projects across all platforms.[7]
In January 2011, Electus announced the acquisition of Engine Entertainment and the formation of a new in-house global distribution arm, Electus/Engine Distribution.[8] The new division handles in-house and third-party projects for distribution globally, including a partnership with Abbot Reif Hameiri Production Company, a leading production company in Israel.[9]
In January 2011, Electus partnered with former MTV President of programming Tony DiSanto and head of series development Liz Gateley, to form an independent, multi-media production company, DiGa. DiGa will focus on producing reality and scripted series for primetime cable and network outlets.[10]
In June 2012 Electus announced that they have partnered with YouTube to launch the official YouTube food channel HUNGRY[11] with Celebrity chefs Duff Goldman and Laura Vitale.
Projects[edit]
Electus projects include:

The Toy Box (Current; Co-produced with Mattel)
No Tomorrow (Current; Co-produced with Warner Bros. Television)
Running Wild with Bear Grylls (Current; Co-produced with Bear Grylls Ventures)
Jane the Virgin (Current; Co-produced with Warner Bros. Television and CBS Television Studios)
Food Fighters (Current; Co-produced with Rio Bravo and Universal Television)
King of the Nerds (UK) (2015; Co-produced with Objective Productions)
King of the Nerds (2013; Co-produced with 5x5 Media)
Fashion Star (2012; Co-produced with 5x5 Media, Magical Elves, EJD Productions, and The Global Fashion Association)
Car Boss (2012; Co-produced with 5x5 Media)
Mob Wives (2011; Co-produced with The Weinstein Company Television)
William the Conqueror (2011)
Master of the Mix (2010)
Crowd Sourced Hero (current Facebook program)
Jerk All Stars (2010; MySpace)
The Sheriff (2011; Co-produced with 5x5 Media)
Marco Polo (Current; Co-produced with The Weinstein Company Television)
YouTube official food channel HUNGRY (2012)
Bet on Your Baby (2013; Co-produced with 5x5 Media)
The Hero (2013; Co-produced with 5x5 Media)
Miami Monkey (2013; Co-produced with Just Jenn, Left-Right, and The Weinstein Company Television)
Killer Women (2014; Co-produced with Latin World Entertainment and ABC Studios)
Candid Camera (2014: Co-produced with Candid Camera, Inc.)


Adam Ruins Everything (2015)
Terry Crews Saves Christmas (2016)


Winsanity (2016)
Flaked (2016)
The Toy Box (2017)
Dog and Beth: On the Hunt
Dr. Christmas

References[edit]


^ Littleton, Cynthia (2016-02-03). "Electus Launches Jackknife Media with 'Bear Grylls' Producer (EXCLUSIVE)". Variety. Retrieved 2017-04-27. 
^ Paul Thomasch. "NBC executive Silverman exits for IAC venture," Reuters, July 27, 2009.
^ "IAC Merges CollegeHumor With Electus". TheWrap. 2014-01-27. Retrieved 2017-04-27. 
^ Stuart Levine. "Ben Silverman's Electus to Take Over CollegeHumor" Variety, Nov 5, 2009.
^ David Kaplan. "IAC's Electus Rolls Out 'Dirty Shorts' Branded Campaign," PaidContent.org, June 11, 2010.
^ Andrew Hammp. "Denny's and DumbDumb Introduce Online Talk Show," Ad Age, March 6, 2011.
^ Stuart Levine. "Electus Gets Distrib Rights in 5x5 Deal" Variety, Aug 9, 2010.
^ Gavin O'Malley. "IAC's Electus Acquires Engine Entertainment, Forms Global Distribution Arm" MediaPost, Jan 18, 2011.
^ Wrap Staff. "Ben Silverman's Back in Business with Shine" The Wrap, Feb 2, 2010.
^ Nellie Andreeva. "Former MTV Execs Tony DiSanto & Liz Gateley Unveil New Company, First Slate" Deadline.com, Jan 24, 2011.
^ Huffington Post - YouTube HUNGRY Channel


External links[edit]

Electus.com







v
t
e


IAC



Match Group



Chemistry.com
HowAboutWe
Match.com
Meetic
OkCupid
People Media
PlentyOfFish
Tinder
The Princeton Review
Tutor.com





IAC Publishing



Ask.com
CityGrid
Dictionary.com
Dotdash
Investopedia
The Daily Beast
ASKfm





Video



CollegeHumor
DailyBurn
Electus
Vimeo

Livestream







ANGI Homeservices



HomeAdvisor
Angie's List










 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Electus&oldid=795040771"					
Categories: Television production companies of the United StatesIAC (company)Hidden categories: Articles with topics of unclear notability from June 2011All articles with topics of unclear notabilityArticles with a promotional tone from November 2011All articles with a promotional toneArticles created via the Article Wizard 
