MCA Inc. - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search


MCA Inc.




Industry
Music
Film
Entertainment
Television


Fate
Reincorporated as Universal Studios


Founded
1924; 93 years ago (1924)


Founder
Jules Stein
William R. Goodheart, Jr.


Defunct
1996; 21 years ago (1996)


Products
Television Production and music production


Parent
Matsushita Electric (1990–1995)
Seagram (1995–1996)


Divisions
Universal City Studios
Universal Television
MCA Records


MCA Inc. (which stands for Music Corporation of America) was an American media company. Initially starting in the music business, the company next became a dominant force in the film business, and later expanded into the television business. MCA published music, booked acts, ran a record company, represented film, television and radio stars, and eventually produced and sold television programs to the three major television networks, but had an especially good relationship with NBC. MCA, Inc., is the legal predecessor of Vivendi Universal and thereby NBCUniversal, which since March 2013 is a wholly owned subsidiary of Comcast. MCA's other legal successor is Universal Studios Holding I Corp, an holding company owned by Vivendi, who also owns MCA's former music assets through Universal Music Group (which has absorbed PolyGram and EMI) and Universal Music Publishing Group.



Contents


1 History

1.1 Early years
1.2 Revue Productions and The Early Days of Television
1.3 Takeover of Universal Studios and Decca Records
1.4 Later years


2 References
3 See also



History[edit]
Early years[edit]
MCA was formed in 1924 by Jules Stein and William R. Goodheart, Jr., as Music Corporation of America, a music booking agency based in Chicago, Illinois. MCA helped pioneer modern practices of touring bands and name acts. Early on, MCA booked such prominent artists as King Oliver and Jelly Roll Morton for clubs and speakeasies run by legendary notorious Chicago mobsters such as Al Capone and others.
Lew Wasserman joined MCA in 1936 at the age of 23 and rose through the ranks of MCA for more than four decades, with Sonny Werblin as his right-hand man. Wasserman helped create MCA's radio show, Kay Kyser and His Kollege of Musical Knowledge, which debuted on NBC Radio that same year. Following that success, Stein installed Wasserman in New York City in 1937, but Wasserman convinced him that Hollywood was the best place for the company's growth.
The company was guided by a codification of Stein's pet policies known as "The Rules of The Road". The Rules were passed down from the Prohibition era, Chicago–area MCA (referenced in Citizen Cohn and The King and Queen of Hollywood books) to the 1940s Los Angeles–area firm, which focused on representing movie actors. The Rules were next passed to the 1950s generation of MCA talent agents, including Jerry Perenchio, who later owned and headed a number of businesses including the 1992 to 2007 version of Univision. Perenchio is well known for his version of the Rules (now up to twenty rules), which vary from year to year and have some internal contradictions (Perenchio pointed out that while there is a "no nepotism" rule, he is aware his son was on the board of directors at the time).[citation needed]
In 1939, MCA's headquarters moved from Chicago to Beverly Hills, California, creating a movie division and beginning to acquire talent agencies and represent established actors such as James Stewart, Henry Fonda, Bette Davis, and Ronald Reagan, whom Wasserman became very close with personally. In later decades, Wasserman became a guiding force in Reagan's political ambition by helping Reagan to win the presidency of the Screen Actors Guild (SAG), then election as Governor of California in 1966, and finally President of the United States in 1980.
By the end of the 1930s, MCA had become the largest talent agency in the world, with over 700 clients, including movie stars, recording artists, Broadway actors, radio stars, producers, and directors. Its aggressive acquisition of its clientele in all entertainment sectors earned MCA the nickname of The Octopus. This behavior led U.S. Department of Justice agents to investigate not only whether MCA was a monopoly breaking anti-trust laws, but also its suspected connections to underworld criminal activities. This investigation continued for the next few decades.
Revue Productions and The Early Days of Television[edit]
In 1948, Jules Stein moved up as MCA's first chairman, giving Lew Wasserman charge of day-to-day operations of the company as president. That year, Stein and Wasserman decided to get into a new medium that would, decades later, change the entertainment landscape forever: television. Although many motion picture studios would not touch this new medium, thinking it was just a fad and would fade away, MCA decided to embrace it. First, however, the company needed to get a waiver from the Screen Actors Guild, which ruled at the time that talent agencies such as MCA were prohibited from producing TV shows or films. Thanks to the newly elected SAG president, Ronald Reagan, MCA was granted a waiver to start producing TV shows.
After the waiver was granted, the company formed MCA Television Limited for syndication. In 1950 Revue Productions, once a live concert promotion division that produced "Stage Door Canteen" live events for the USO during World War II, was re-launched as MCA's television production subsidiary. By 1956, Revue became the top supplier of television for all broadcast networks, spanning three decades of television programs such as Armour Theater, General Electric Theater, Leave It to Beaver, Wagon Train, and many others. Prior to 1958, all Revue's shows were filmed at the old Republic Pictures studio lot in Studio City, California.
In February 1958, MCA acquired Paramount Pictures' pre-1950 sound feature film library[1] through a newly created MCA subsidiary, EMKA, Ltd.
Also in 1958, MCA bought the 423-acre (1.71 km2) Universal Studios lot from Universal Pictures for $11 million and renamed it, as well as the actual television unit, Revue Studios. As part of the deal, MCA leased the studios back to Universal for $2 million a year, plus unlimited access to MCA's clients such as Jimmy Stewart, Rock Hudson, Doris Day and Alfred Hitchcock to make films for Universal.
Stein, who by this time was the sole owner of MCA, decided to take the company public by giving 51% of his ownership of MCA to his employees, which included a 20% stake for Wasserman. The company went public on the New York Stock Exchange and was incorporated as MCA Inc. on November 10, 1958.[2] A couple of years later, Alfred Hitchcock gave MCA his rights to Psycho and his television anthology in exchange for 150,000 shares, making him the third largest investor in MCA, and his own boss at Universal.[3]
Takeover of Universal Studios and Decca Records[edit]
In 1962, MCA entered a merger of equals with New York-based American Decca Records, with MCA as the surviving company. Decca at the time owned Coral Records and Brunswick Records, as well as an 89% controlling stake in Universal Studios. In order to acquire Universal, MCA was forced by the Department of Justice to dissolve its talent agency—which represented most of the industry's biggest names—because owning both the movie studio and a talent agency would violate antitrust laws.[4] The agents quickly formed several dozen new firms, representing talent. Many of these are woven into the corporate fabric of today's talent management agencies. Jerry Perenchio's firm, UTM (United Talent Management) represented Elizabeth Taylor and Muhammad Ali. By the end of the year, MCA had assumed full ownership of Universal upon the completion of the merger.
In 1964, MCA formed Universal City Studios in effort to merge under one umbrella, both Universal Pictures and Revue Productions division, which was later reincorporated as Universal Television in 1966. Also in 1964 on July 15, MCA established the Studio Tour which provided guests a sneak peak behind-the-scenes glimpse at movie and television production at the backlot of Universal Studios. This established a footprint of what is known today as the Universal Studios Hollywood film studio and theme park. Over the next few decades, similar parks were built and expanded under MCA for Universal Orlando Resort in Orlando, Florida and Universal Studios Japan in Osaka, Japan.
In 1966, MCA formed Uni Records in Hollywood, California,[5] and in 1967, MCA bought New York-based Kapp Records. That same year MCA also acquired guitar maker Danelectro.
Later years[edit]
In 1967, the MCA Records label was established outside the United States and Canada to issue releases by the MCA group of labels. Decca, Kapp and Uni were merged into MCA Records at Universal City, California in 1971; the three labels maintained their identities for a short time but were soon retired in favor of the MCA label. The first MCA Records release in the US was former Uni artist Elton John's "Crocodile Rock" in 1972. In 1973, the final Decca pop label release was issued.
In 1973, Stein stepped down from the company he founded and Wasserman took over as chairman and chief executive officer, while Sidney Sheinberg was appointed president and chief operating officer of MCA. Other executives within MCA were Lawrence R. Barnett, who ran the agency's live acts division during its glory agency years in the 1950s and 1960s, and Ned Tanen, head of Universal Pictures. Tanen was behind Universal hits such as Animal House, John Hughes's Sixteen Candles and The Breakfast Club.
MCA issued soundtrack albums for most films released by Universal Pictures.
In 1975, the company entered the book publishing business with the acquisition of G. P. Putnam's Sons. In 1979, it acquired ABC Records along with its subsidiaries Paramount Records, Impulse Records, and Dot Records. ABC had acquired the Paramount and Dot labels when it purchased Gulf+Western's record labels.
From 1983 to 1989, Irving Azoff was chairman of MCA Records and is credited for turning around the fortunes of the label.[6]
The Chess Records catalog was acquired from the remnants of Sugarhill in 1985. Motown Records was bought in 1988 (and sold to PolyGram in 1993). GRP Records (which became MCA's label for jazz music and thus began managing the company's jazz catalogue) and Geffen Records (which served as another mainstream music subsidiary) were acquired in 1990. In the same year, MCA was purchased by the Japanese multinational conglomerate Matsushita Electric.
MCA also acquired other assets outside of the music industry. It became a shareholder in USA Network in 1981, eventually owning 50% of the network (the other half was owned by Paramount). In 1982, its publishing division, G. P. Putnam's Sons, bought Grosset & Dunlap from Filmways. In 1984, MCA bought Walter Lantz Productions and its characters. It also bought a TV station in New York City, WWOR-TV (renamed from WOR-TV), in 1987, from RKO General, which was in the midst of a licensing scandal.
In November 1990, Matsushita Electric of Japan agreed to acquire MCA for US$6.59 billion.[7][8] MCA was forced to sell WWOR-TV in 1991 by the Federal Communications Commission, because foreign companies could not own over 25% of a US TV station.
In 1995, Seagram Company Ltd. acquired 80% of MCA from Matsushita.[9][10] On December 9, 1996, the new owners dropped the MCA name; the company became Universal Studios, Inc.,[11] and its music division, MCA Music Entertainment Group, was renamed Universal Music Group. MCA Records continued to live on as a label within the Universal Music Group. The following year, G. P. Putnam's Sons was sold to the Penguin Group.
In 1996, MCA filed a lawsuit against Viacom over the latter's launch of the TV Land cable network. Viacom had purchased Paramount in 1994, and the contract for USA Networks prohibited either of their owners from owning cable channels outside the joint venture.[12] Viacom had owned MTV Networks (the parent of TV Land) since 1985. The suit was settled when Viacom sold MCA its half of the joint venture. TV Land eventually added shows from the MCA/Universal library in 1999.
In 1998, Seagram acquired PolyGram from Philips and merged it with its music holdings. When France-based Pernod Ricard purchased Seagram's drinks business, Pernod sold its media holdings (including Universal) to Vivendi, which became Vivendi Universal in 2000.
In the spring of 2003, MCA Records was folded into Geffen Records. Its country music label, MCA Nashville Records, is still in operation. MCA's classical music catalog is managed by Deutsche Grammophon.
MCA's non-music assets at the time of the company's renaming, including Universal Studios and the 50% interest in USA Networks, came under ownership of NBC Universal (now full owner of USA), which was 80% owned by General Electric, and 20% owned by Vivendi. In 2009, GE struck a deal to buy Vivendi's interest, and sold a controlling 51% interest to Comcast afterwards. The sale completed on January 28, 2011, with General Electric owning 49% of the newly formed NBCUniversal. Comcast bought GE's stake two years later.[13]
The landmark Paul Williams-designed Beverly Hills property that MCA once occupied is now the headquarters of Paradigm Talent Agency. Conference rooms inside the building are named after Jules Stein and Lew Wasserman in honor of the legendary occupants.
References[edit]


^ Dick, Bernard F. (2015). City of Dreams: The Making and Remaking of Universal Pictures. University Press of Kentucky. p. 160. ISBN 0813158893. 
^ Search | Universal Music. New.umusic.com. Retrieved on 2013-12-23.
^ Stephen Rebello, Alfred Hitchcock and the Making of Psycho, Soft Skull Press, Berkeley, 1990.
^ "MCA Inc". Baker Library-Harvard University. Retrieved July 5, 2014. 
^ [1] Archived October 13, 2007, at the Wayback Machine.
^ E. Scott Reckard, "Azoff Quits as Chairman of MCA's Music Unit", AP News Archive, September 5, 1989
^ "It's a Wrap: MCA Sold: Matsushita to Pay About $6.6 Billion". The Los Angeles Times. 26 November 1990. Retrieved 14 April 2013. 
^ "Who Gets What From MCA Deal". The New York Times. 1 December 1990. Retrieved 14 April 2013. 
^ "Seagram heads for Hollywood; Seagram will buy 80% of big studio from Matsushita". The New York Times. 7 April 1995. Retrieved 14 April 2013. 
^ "Matsushita, Freed of MCA, Reports a Profit". The New York Times. 28 August 1996. Retrieved 14 April 2013. 
^ Reckard, E. Scott (December 9, 1996). "MCA changes name to Universal Studios Inc". Orlando Business Journal. 
^ Fabrikant, Geraldine (30 April 1996). "MCA Sues Viacom, Saying New Channel Violates Their USA Network Partnership". The New York Times. Retrieved 29 November 2015. 
^ Lieberman, David (March 19, 2013). "Comcast Completes Acquisition Of GE's 49% Stake In NBCUniversal". Deadline Hollywood. 


See also[edit]

Laserdisc
MCA Records
NBCUniversal
Vivendi







v
t
e


NBCUniversal




A subsidiary of Comcast



Corporate
officials




Board of Directors



Steve Burke (CEO)
Brian L. Roberts
Jeffrey R. Immelt
Keith Sherin





Executives



Steve Capus
Dick Ebersol
Robert Greenblatt
Bonnie Hammer
Ted Harbert
Ronald Meyer








Universal Studios



Amblin Partners[nu 1]
Back Lot Music
Carnival Films
Chiller Films
DreamWorks Animation

DreamWorks Classics

Big Idea Entertainment
Bullwinkle StudiosJV
Harvey Entertainment


DreamWorks Channel
Oriental DreamWorks[nu 2]
DreamWorks New Media

AwesomenessTV[nu 3]

Big Frame






Fandango (70%)
Focus Features

Gramercy Pictures


Illumination Entertainment

Illumination Mac Guff


NBCUniversal Entertainment Japan
United International Pictures[nu 4]
Universal Animation Studios
Universal Playback
Universal Pictures Home Entertainment
Working Title Films





Universal Parks
& Resorts




United States



Universal Studios Hollywood

CityWalk


Universal Orlando Resort

Universal Studios Florida
Islands of Adventure
CityWalk







International



Universal Studios Japan
Universal Studios Singapore
Universal Studios Beijing








NBCU Cable
Entertainment



Universal Cable Productions
Craftsy (major stake)
Networks

Chiller
Syfy
USA Network


Lifestyle Group

Bravo
E!
Oxygen
Universal Kids







NBCU Digital



Hulu[nu 5]
Movieclips
Seeso





NBCU Telemundo
Enterprises



NBC Universo
Telemundo

Puerto Rico Studios
Telemundo TV Studios


Telemundo Deportesw/NBC Sports Group





NBC Sports Group







NBC Sports Ventures

Alli


Golf Channel
NBC Sports Digital

GolfNow


NBC Sports
NBCSN
Olympic Channel
part owner

MLB Network
NHL Network







NBC Sports
Regional Networks



Bay Area (45%)
Boston
California
Chicago (20%)
Northwest
Philadelphia
Washington
SNY (8%)








NBCUniversal
News Group







NBC News
NBCNews.com
The Weather Channel[nu 6]
MSNBC
Peacock Productions





CNBC global channels



CNBC
CNBC Africa (licensee)
CNBC Asia
CNBC Europe
CNBC Latin America
CNBC World





CNBC Europe branches



Class CNBC (20%)
CNBC Africa (licensee)
CNBC Arabiya
CNBC-e
CNBC Nordic





CNBC Asia branches



CNBC-TV18
CNBC Australia
CNBC Awaaz
CNBC Hong Kong
CNBC Pakistan
CNBC Singapore
Nikkei CNBC
SBS-CNBC








NBCUniversal
International
Networks



13th Street Universal

Australia
Benelux
France
Germany
Spain


Bravo New Zealand
Euronews[nu 7]
Syfy Universal

Asia
Australia
Benelux
France
Germany
Italy[nu 8]
Latin America
Poland
Portugal
Romania
Russia
Serbia
Slovenia
Spain
United Kingdom


Diva Universal

Asia
Italy
Romania


Movies 24
Studio Universal

Latin America


Universal Channel

Asia
Australia
Germany
Greece
Japan
Poland
Turkey
United Kingdom


Style Network

Australia


E!

Asia
Australia
Europe







NBC Entertainment



NBC
DreamWorks Animation Television
Stamford Media Center
Universal Television





NBC Broadcasting







Affiliate Relations
NBCUniversal Television Distribution





NBCU Owned
TV Stations
O&Os




NBC Owned
TV Stations



KNBC
KNSD
KNTV
KXAS-TV
WBTS-LD
WCAU
WMAQ-TV
WNBC
WRC-TV
WTVJ
WVIT Other properties:
Cozi TV

K15CU-D


LXTV
New England Cable News





Telemundo
Station Group



KBLR
KDEN-TV
KEJT-LP
KHRR
KNSD-DT20
KNSO[nu 9]
KSTS
KTAZ
KTLM
KTMD
KVDA
KVEA
KXTX-TV
WKAQ-TV
WNEU
WNJU
WSCV
WSNS-TV
WWSI Other properties:
TeleXitos











Other assets:



EMKA, Ltd.
International Media Distribution
PictureBox Films





Former/Defunct
properties
and predecessors:



Castle Films
Chapman Entertainment
CIC Video
Cloo
Comcast Network
Esquire Network
FilmDistrict
Filmation
G4
Good Machine
Gramercy Pictures
Harvey Films/Harvey Comics
ITC Entertainment
Interscope Communications
Miss Universe[nu 10]
Multimedia Entertainment
MCA Inc.
October Films
Kitty Films
Pacific Data Images
PolyGram Filmed Entertainment
Propaganda Films
Seagram Company Ltd.
Shift
Total Television
United Productions of America
Universal HD









^ Co-owned with The Amblin Group, Participant Media, Reliance Entertainment, Entertainment One and Alibaba Pictures.
^ Co-owned with China Media Capital, Shanghai Media Group and Shanghai Alliance Investment.
^ Co-owned with Hearst Communications and Verizon Communications.
^ 50%, with Viacom's Paramount Pictures.
^ Co-owned with 21st Century Fox, The Walt Disney Company and Time Warner. NBCUniversal has no involvement with Hulu operations.
^ Co-owned with The Blackstone Group and Bain Capital.
^ Co-owned with Media Globe Networks and European public broadcasters.
^ Co-owned with Mediaset.
^ The station is owned by NBCUniversal, but is controlled by Serestar Communications.
^ Co-owned with The Trump Organization before September 2015 sale to WMG/IMG.













v
t
e


Vivendi






History
List of owned assets





Directors



Vincent Bolloré
Arnaud de Puyfontaine
Pierre Rodocanachi





Universal
Music Group



Universal Music Distribution
Universal Music Publishing Group
Decca Label Group

Decca Records
Deutsche Grammophon


Island Records

Mercury Records


Roc Nation

StarRoc
Takeover Roc Nation


Republic Records

Cash Money Records
Big Machine Label Group


Universal Music Enterprises

Hip-O Records


Def Jam Recordings
Show Dog-Universal Music
Vevo




Capitol Christian
Music Group



Motown Gospel
Sparrow Records
Tooth & Nail Records





Capitol Music Group



Astralwerks
Apple Records
Blue Note Records
Capitol Records
Caroline Distribution
Harvest Records
mau5trap
Motown
Priority Records
Virgin Records





Interscope Geffen
A&M Records



A&M Records
A&M Octone Records
DGC Records
Geffen Records
Interscope Records





UM Latin
Entertainment



Capitol Latin
Disa Records
Fonovisa Records
Machete Music





UMG Nashville



MCA Nashville
Mercury Nashville Records
Lost Highway Records
Capitol Records Nashville
EMI Records Nashville





UM UK



Capitol UK
Decca Records
Island UK
Polydor Records
Virgin EMI Records





Verve Records



GRP Records
Impulse! Records
Verve Forecast Records





Film/TV units



Eagle Rock Entertainment
PolyGram Entertainment
Universal Music TV








Canal+ Group



Canal+
Canalsat

Afrique
Calédonie
Caraïbes


D8
StudioCanal

UK







Other assets



Dailymotion (90%)
Gameloft (96%)
Telecom Italia (20.03%)
Mediaset (12.3%)










 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=MCA_Inc.&oldid=809980846"					
Categories: Defunct media companies of the United StatesHome video companies of the United StatesTelevision production companies of the United StatesMCA RecordsPredecessors of NBCUniversalCompanies based in ChicagoEntertainment companies based in CaliforniaAmerican companies established in 1924Entertainment companies established in 1924Media companies established in 1924Media companies disestablished in 19961924 establishments in Illinois1996 disestablishments in Illinois1924 establishments in California1996 disestablishments in CaliforniaHistory of ChicagoUniversal Music GroupUniversal StudiosVivendi subsidiariesHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback linksAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from May 2011 
