Laozi - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

For the book also known as Laozi, see Tao Te Ching.


Laozi
老子



Laozi, depicted as Daode Tianzun



Born
6th–5th century BCE
Zhou Dynasty


Died
531 BCE
Zhou Dynasty





Era
Ancient philosophy


Region
Chinese philosophy


School
Taoism



Notable ideas

Wu wei




Influences


Gautam Buddha , Padmasāmbhāva








Influenced


Carl Jung, Julius Evola, the Neotaoists














Laozi



"Laozi" in seal script (top) and regular (bottom) Chinese characters



Chinese
老子


Literal meaning
"Old Master"





Transcriptions


Standard Mandarin


Hanyu Pinyin
Lǎozǐ


Gwoyeu Romatzyh
Laotzyy


Wade–Giles
Lao3-tzŭ3


IPA
[làu.tsɨ̀]


Wu


Suzhounese
Lâ-tsỳ


Yue: Cantonese


Yale Romanization
Lóuh-jí


IPA
[lo̬u.tsǐː]


Jyutping
Lou5-zi2


Southern Min


Hokkien POJ
Ló-chú


Tâi-lô
Ló-tsú


Old Chinese


Baxter–Sagart (2014)
*C.rˤuʔ tsəʔ










Part of a series on


Taoism







Theories


Dao (Tao)
De (Te)


Wuji
Taiji
Yin-Yang


Wu wei
Ziran
Xian


Wu Xing
Qi








Practices


Three Treasures


Taoist meditation


Taoist diet


Neidan


Taoist sexual practices








Texts


I Ching
Laozi (Tao Te Ching)
Zhuangzi
Liezi
Daozang








Deities


Hongjun Laozu
Three Pure Ones


Guan Shengdi
Eight Immortals
Yellow Emperor
Li Hong
Xiwangmu
Jade Emperor


Other deities








People


Laozi
Zhuangzi
Zhang Daoling
Zhang Jue
Ge Hong
Chen Tuan








Schools


Wudoumi
Tianshi
Shangqing
Lingbao
Quanzhen (Longmen)
Zhengyi
Wuliu
Yao Taoism








Holy places


Taoist temple


Grotto-heavens


Mount Penglai








Organisations


Chinese Taoist Association


Celestial Master


Daoshi






Portal Taoism





v
t
e





Laozi (also Lao-Tzu /ˈlaʊˈdzʌ/[1] or Lao-Tze, Chinese: 老子; pinyin: Lǎozǐ, literally "Old Master") was an ancient Chinese philosopher and writer. He is known as the reputed author of the Tao Te Ching,[2] the founder of philosophical Taoism, and a deity in religious Taoism and traditional Chinese religions.
A semi-legendary figure, Laozi was usually portrayed as a 6th-century BCE contemporary of Confucius, but most modern historians consider him, assuming he existed, to have lived during the Warring States period of the 5th or 4th century BCE.[3] A central figure in Chinese culture, Laozi is claimed by both the emperors of the Tang dynasty and modern people of the Li surname as a founder of their lineage. Laozi's work has been embraced by both various anti-authoritarian movements[4] as well as Chinese Legalism.[5]



Contents


1 Names
2 Historical views
3 Tao Te Ching

3.1 Taoism


4 Influence
5 See also
6 References
7 Further reading
8 External links



Names[edit]
In traditional accounts, Laozi's personal name is usually given as Li Er (李耳, Old *Rəʔ Nəʔ,[6] Mod. Lǐ Ěr) and his courtesy name as Boyang (trad. 伯陽, simp. 伯阳, Old *Pˤrak-lang,[6] Mod. Bóyáng). A prominent posthumous name was Li Dan (李聃, Lǐ Dān).[7][8][9]
Laozi itself is a honorific title: 老 (Old *rˤuʔ, "old, venerable"[6]) and 子 (Old *tsə′, "master"[6]). It is usually pronounced /ˌlaʊˈdzʌ/[1][10] in English. It has been romanized numerous ways, sometimes leading to confusion. The most common present form is Laozi or Lǎozǐ,[11] based on the Hanyu Pinyin system adopted by Mainland China in 1958[12] and by Taiwan in 2009.[13] During the 20th century, Lao-tzu[14] was more common,[11] based on the formerly prevalent Wade–Giles system. In the 19th century, the title was usually romanized as Lao-tse.[11][15] Other forms include the variants Lao-tze[16] and Lao-tsu.[17]
As a religious figure, he is worshipped under the name "Supreme Old Lord" (太上老君, Tàishàng Lǎojūn)[18] and as one of the "Three Pure Ones." During the Tang Dynasty, he was granted the title "Supremely Mysterious and Primordial Emperor" (太上玄元皇帝, Tàishàng Xuānyuán Huángdì).[19]
Historical views[edit]
In the mid-twentieth century, a consensus emerged among scholars that the historicity of the person known as Laozi is doubtful and that the Tao Te Ching was "a compilation of Taoist sayings by many hands."[20] Philosopher Alan Watts urged more caution, holding that this view was part of an academic fashion for skepticism about historical spiritual and religious figures and stating that not enough would be known for years – or possibly ever – to make a firm judgment.[21]
The earliest certain reference to the present figure of Laozi is found in the 1st-century BCE Records of the Grand Historian collected by the historian Sima Qian from earlier accounts. In one account, Laozi was said to be a contemporary of Confucius during the 6th or 5th century BCE. His surname was Li and his personal name was Er or Dan. He was an official in the imperial archives and wrote a book in two parts before departing to the west. In another, Laozi was a different contemporary of Confucius titled Lao Laizi (老莱子) and wrote a book in 15 parts. In a third, he was the court astrologer Lao Dan who lived during the 4th century BCE reign of Duke Xian of the Qin Dynasty.[22][23] The oldest text of the Tao Te Ching so far recovered was written on bamboo slips and dates to the late 4th century BCE.[2]
According to traditional accounts, Laozi was a scholar who worked as the Keeper of the Archives for the royal court of Zhou.[24] This reportedly allowed him broad access to the works of the Yellow Emperor and other classics of the time. The stories assert that Laozi never opened a formal school but nonetheless attracted a large number of students and loyal disciples. There are many variations of a story retelling his encounter with Confucius, most famously in the Zhuangzi.[25][26]




According to Chinese legend, Laozi left China for the west on a water buffalo.[27]


He was sometimes held to have come from the village of Chu Jen in Chu.[28] In accounts where Laozi married, he was said to have had a son named Zong who became a celebrated soldier. Many clans of the Li family trace their descent to Laozi,[29] including the emperors of the Tang dynasty.[30][29][31] This family was known as the Longxi Li lineage (隴西李氏). According to the Simpkinses, while many (if not all) of these lineages are questionable, they provide a testament to Laozi's impact on Chinese culture.[32]




Laozi meets Yinxi






Confucius meets Laozi, Shih Kang, Yuan dynasty


The third story in Sima Qian states that Laozi grew weary of the moral decay of life in Chengzhou and noted the kingdom's decline. He ventured west to live as a hermit in the unsettled frontier at the age of 80. At the western gate of the city (or kingdom), he was recognized by the guard Yinxi. The sentry asked the old master to record his wisdom for the good of the country before he would be permitted to pass. The text Laozi wrote was said to be the Tao Te Ching, although the present version of the text includes additions from later periods. In some versions of the tale, the sentry was so touched by the work that he became a disciple and left with Laozi, never to be seen again.[33] In others, the "Old Master" journeyed all the way to India and was the teacher of Siddartha Gautama, the Buddha. Others say he was the Buddha himself.[25][34]




Depiction of Laozi in E. T. C. Werner's Myths and Legends of China


A seventh-century work, the Sandong Zhunang ("Pearly Bag of the Three Caverns"), embellished the relationship between Laozi and Yinxi. Laozi pretended to be a farmer when reaching the western gate, but was recognized by Yinxi, who asked to be taught by the great master. Laozi was not satisfied by simply being noticed by the guard and demanded an explanation. Yinxi expressed his deep desire to find the Tao and explained that his long study of astrology allowed him to recognize Laozi's approach. Yinxi was accepted by Laozi as a disciple. This is considered an exemplary interaction between Daoist master and disciple, reflecting the testing a seeker must undergo before being accepted. A would-be adherent is expected to prove his determination and talent, clearly expressing his wishes and showing that he had made progress on his own towards realizing the Tao.[35]
The Pearly Bag of the Three Caverns continues the parallel of an adherent's quest. Yinxi received his ordination when Laozi transmitted the Daodejing, along with other texts and precepts, just as Taoist adherents receive a number of methods, teachings and scriptures at ordination. This is only an initial ordination and Yinxi still needed an additional period to perfect his virtue, thus Laozi gave him three years to perfect his Dao. Yinxi gave himself over to a full-time devotional life. After the appointed time, Yinxi again demonstrates determination and perfect trust, sending out a black sheep to market as the agreed sign. He eventually meets again with Laozi, who announces that Yinxi's immortal name is listed in the heavens and calls down a heavenly procession to clothe Yinxi in the garb of immortals. The story continues that Laozi bestowed a number of titles upon Yinxi and took him on a journey throughout the universe, even into the nine heavens. After this fantastic journey, the two sages set out to western lands of the barbarians. The training period, reuniting and travels represent the attainment of the highest religious rank in medieval Taoism called "Preceptor of the Three Caverns". In this legend, Laozi is the perfect Daoist master and Yinxi is the ideal Taoist student. Laozi is presented as the Tao personified, giving his teaching to humanity for their salvation. Yinxi follows the formal sequence of preparation, testing, training and attainment.[36]
The story of Laozi has taken on strong religious overtones since the Han dynasty. As Taoism took root, Laozi was worshipped as a god. Belief in the revelation of the Tao from the divine Laozi resulted in the formation of the Way of the Celestial Master, the first organized religious Taoist sect. In later mature Taoist tradition, Laozi came to be seen as a personification of the Tao. He is said to have undergone numerous "transformations" and taken on various guises in various incarnations throughout history to initiate the faithful in the Way. Religious Taoism often holds that the "Old Master" did not disappear after writing the Tao Te Ching but rather spent his life traveling and revealing the Tao.[37]
Taoist myths state that Laozi was conceived when his mother gazed upon a falling star. He supposedly remained in her womb for 62 years before being born while his mother was leaning against a plum tree. (The Chinese surname Li shares its character with "plum".) Laozi was said to have emerged as a grown man with a full grey beard and long earlobes, both symbols of wisdom and long life.[38][39] Other myths state that he was reborn 13 times after his first life during the days of Fuxi. In his last incarnation as Laozi, he lived nine hundred and ninety years and spent his life traveling to reveal the Tao.[37]
Tao Te Ching[edit]
See also: Tao Te Ching, Tao, and Wu wei




Laozi Immortal and Grand Master of Heaven


Laozi is traditionally regarded as the author of the Daodejing (Tao Te Ching), though the identity of its author(s) or compiler(s) has been debated throughout history.[40][41] It is one of the most significant treatises in Chinese cosmogony. As with most other ancient Chinese philosophers, Laozi often explains his ideas by way of paradox, analogy, appropriation of ancient sayings, repetition, symmetry, rhyme, and rhythm. In fact, the whole book can be read as an analogy – the ruler is the awareness, or self, in meditation and the myriad creatures or empire is the experience of the body, senses and desires.
The Tao Te Ching, often called simply Laozi after its reputed author, describes the Dao (or Tao) as the source and ideal of all existence: it is unseen, but not transcendent, immensely powerful yet supremely humble, being the root of all things. People have desires and free will (and thus are able to alter their own nature). Many act "unnaturally", upsetting the natural balance of the Dao. The Daodejing intends to lead students to a "return" to their natural state, in harmony with Dao.[42] Language and conventional wisdom are critically assessed. Taoism views them as inherently biased and artificial, widely using paradoxes to sharpen the point.[43]
Livia Kohn provides an example of how Laozi encouraged a change in approach, or return to "nature", rather than action. Technology may bring about a false sense of progress. The answer provided by Laozi is not the rejection of technology, but instead seeking the calm state of wu wei, free from desires. This relates to many statements by Laozi encouraging rulers to keep their people in "ignorance", or "simple-minded". Some scholars insist this explanation ignores the religious context, and others question it as an apologetic of the philosophical coherence of the text. It would not be unusual political advice if Laozi literally intended to tell rulers to keep their people ignorant. However, some terms in the text, such as "valley spirit" (gushen) and "soul" (po), bear a metaphysical context and cannot be easily reconciled with a purely ethical reading of the work.[43]
Wu wei (無爲), literally "non-action" or "not acting", is a central concept of the Daodejing. The concept of wu wei is multifaceted, and reflected in the words' multiple meanings, even in English translation; it can mean "not doing anything", "not forcing", "not acting" in the theatrical sense, "creating nothingness", "acting spontaneously", and "flowing with the moment."[44]
It is a concept used to explain ziran (自然), or harmony with the Dao. It includes the concepts that value distinctions are ideological and seeing ambition of all sorts as originating from the same source. Laozi used the term broadly with simplicity and humility as key virtues, often in contrast to selfish action. On a political level, it means avoiding such circumstances as war, harsh laws and heavy taxes. Some Taoists see a connection between wu wei and esoteric practices, such as zuowang "sitting in oblivion" (emptying the mind of bodily awareness and thought) found in the Zhuangzi.[43]
Some of Laozi's famous sayings include:

"When goodness is lost, it is replaced by morality."
"Darkness is the absence of light as darkness cannot comprehend it"
"Lies cannot live without truth but truth exists by itself"
"The usefulness of a pot comes from its emptiness."
"The best people are like water, which benefits all things and does not compete with them. It stays in lowly places that others reject. This is why it is so similar to the Way."
"When people see some things as beautiful, other things become ugly. When people see some things as good, other things become bad."
"Try to change it and you will ruin it. Try to hold it and you will lose it."
"Those who know do not say. Those who say do not know."
"When you realize there is nothing lacking, the whole world belongs to you."
"Nature does not hurry, yet everything is accomplished."
"He who knows, does not speak. He who speaks, does not know."
"A good traveler has no fixed plans, and is not intent on arriving."
"Music in the soul can be heard by the universe."
"A journey of a thousand miles starts under one's feet."
"The more that laws and regulations are given prominence, the more thieves and robbers there will be."
— Laozi, Tao Te Ching

Taoism[edit]
See also: Taoism
Laozi is traditionally regarded as the founder of Taoism, intimately connected with the Daodejing and "primordial" (or "original") Taoism. Popular ("religious") Taoism typically presents the Jade Emperor as the official head deity. Intellectual ("elite") Taoists, such as the Celestial Masters sect, usually present Laozi (Laojun, "Lord Lao") and the Three Pure Ones at the top of the pantheon of deities.[45][46]
Influence[edit]









A Western Han (202 BCE – 9 CE) fresco depicting Confucius and Laozi, from a tomb of Dongping County, Shandong province, China






A stone sculpture of Laozi, located north of Quanzhou at the foot of Mount Qingyuan


Potential officials throughout Chinese history drew on the authority of non-Confucian sages, especially Laozi and Zhuangzi, to deny serving any ruler at any time. Zhuangzi, Laozi's most famous follower in traditional accounts, had a great deal of influence on Chinese literati and culture.
Political theorists influenced by Laozi have advocated humility in leadership and a restrained approach to statecraft, either for ethical and pacifist reasons, or for tactical ends. In a different context, various anti-authoritarian movements have embraced the Laozi teachings on the power of the weak.[47]
Laozi was a proponent of limited government.[48] Left-libertarians in particular have been influenced by Laozi – in his 1937 book Nationalism and Culture, the anarcho-syndicalist writer and activist Rudolf Rocker praised Laozi's "gentle wisdom" and understanding of the opposition between political power and the cultural activities of the people and community.[49] In his 1910 article for the Encyclopædia Britannica, Peter Kropotkin also noted that Laozi was among the earliest proponents of essentially anarchist concepts.[50] More recently, anarchists such as John P. Clark and Ursula K. Le Guin have written about the conjunction between anarchism and Taoism in various ways, highlighting the teachings of Laozi in particular.[51] In her rendition of the Tao Te Ching, Le Guin writes that Laozi "does not see political power as magic. He sees rightful power as earned and wrongful power as usurped... He sees sacrifice of self or others as a corruption of power, and power as available to anyone who follows the Way. No wonder anarchists and Taoists make good friends."[52]
The right-libertarian economist Murray Rothbard suggested that Laozi was the first libertarian,[53] likening Laozi's ideas on government to F.A. Hayek's theory of spontaneous order.[54] James A. Dorn agreed, writing that Laozi, like many 18th century liberals, "argued that minimizing the role of government and letting individuals develop spontaneously would best achieve social and economic harmony."[55] Similarly, the Cato Institute's David Boaz includes passages from the Daodejing in his 1997 book The Libertarian Reader.[56] Philosopher Roderick Long, however, argues that libertarian themes in Taoist thought are actually borrowed from earlier Confucian writers.[57]
See also[edit]


Taoism portal



List of people who disappeared mysteriously

References[edit]


^ a b "Lao-tzu". Random House Webster's Unabridged Dictionary.
^ a b "Laozi". Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy by Stanford University. The discovery of two Laozi silk manuscripts at Mawangdui, near Changsha, Hunan province in 1973 marks an important milestone in modern Laozi research. The manuscripts, identified simply as "A" (jia) and "B" (yi), were found in a tomb that was sealed in 168 BCE. The texts themselves can be dated earlier, the "A" manuscript being the older of the two, copied in all likelihood before 195 BCE.
Until recently, the Mawangdui manuscripts have held the pride of place as the oldest extant manuscripts of the Laozi. In late 1993, the excavation of a tomb (identified as M1) in Guodian, Jingmen city, Hubei province, has yielded among other things some 800 bamboo slips, of which 730 are inscribed, containing over 13,000 Chinese characters. Some of these, amounting to about 2,000 characters, match the Laozi. The tomb...is dated around 300 BCE. 

^ Kohn (2000, p. 4)
^ "Lao-tse". ztopics.com. 
^ Han Fei Tzu, the paradigm legalist, wrote one of the earliest commentaries on the Lao Tzu. University of Hong Kong
^ a b c d Baxter, William et al. "Baxter–Sagart Old Chinese Reconstruction". 20 Feb 2011. Accessed 17 Jan 2014.
^ Luo (2004, p. 118)
^ Kramer (1986, p. 118)
^ Kohn (2000, p. 2)
^ Free Dictionary: "Lao Tzu". From the American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language, Fourth Edition copyright. Houghton Mifflin Company: 2009.
^ a b c Franz, Alex et al. ed. Google corpus. 2008. Accessed 17 Jan;2014.
^ Xinhua News Agency. "Pinyin celebrates 50th birthday". 11 Feb 2008. Accessed 20 Sept 2008.
^ Taipei Times. "Hanyu Pinyin to be standard system in 2009". 18 Sept 2008. Accessed 20 Sept 2008.
^ Also encountered as Lao Tzu and Lao-Tzu.
^ Also encountered as Lao Tse and Lao-Tse.
^ Also encountered as Lao Tze and Lao-Tze.
^ Also encountered as Lao Tsu and Lao-Tsu.
^ "Lao Zi and the Canon of Virtue". sacu.org. 
^ 傅勤家 (1996). 道教史概論 (in Chinese). Taipei: 臺灣商務印書館. p. 82. ISBN 9570513241. 
^ Watson (1968, p. 8)
^ Watts (1975, p. xxiii)
^ Fowler (2005, p. 96)
^ Robinet (1997, p. 26)
^ "Lao Tzu (Lao Zi) Scroll Paintings and Posters". Edepot.com. Retrieved 2013-02-15. 
^ a b Simpkins & Simpkins (1999, pp. 12–13)
^ Morgan (2001, pp. 223–24)
^ Renard (2002, p. 16)
^ Morgan, Diane (2001), The best guide to eastern philosophy and religion (1st ed.), Los Angeles, Calif.: Renaissance Books, ISBN 978-1580631976 
^ a b Woolf, Greg (2007). Ancient civilizations: the illustrated guide to belief, mythology, and art. Barnes & Noble. pp. 218–19. ISBN 978-1-4351-0121-0. 
^ Latourette, Kenneth Scott (1934), The Chinese: their history and culture, Volume 1 (2 ed.), Macmillan, p. 191, retrieved February 8, 2012, T'ai Tsung's family professed descent from Lao Tzu (for the latter's reputed patronymic was likewise Li) 
^ Hargett, James M. (2006). Stairway to Heaven: A Journey to the Summit of Mount Emei. SUNY Press. pp. 54–. ISBN 978-0-7914-6682-7. 
^ Simpkins & Simpkins (1999, p. 12)
^ Kohn & Lafargue (1998, pp. 14, 17, 54–55)
^ Morgan (2001, pp. 224–25)
^ Kohn & Lafargue (1998, p. 55)
^ Kohn & Lafargue (1998, pp. 55–56)
^ a b Kohn (2000, pp. 3–4)
^ Simpkins & Simpkins (1999, pp. 11–12)
^ Morgan (2001, p. 303)
^ Simpkins & Simpkins (1999, pp. 11–13)
^ Morgan (2001, p. 223)
^ Van Norden & Ivanhoe (2005, p. 162)
^ a b c Kohn (2000, p. 22)
^ Watts (1975, pp. 78–86)
^ Maspero (1981, p. 41)
^ Robinet (1997, p. 63)
^ Roberts (2001, pp. 1–2)
^ Dorn, James A. (2008). "Lao Tzu (c. 600 B.C.)". In Hamowy, Ronald. The Encyclopedia of Libertarianism. Thousand Oaks, CA: SAGE; Cato Institute. pp. 282–83. doi:10.4135/9781412965811.n169. ISBN 978-1-4129-6580-4. LCCN 2008009151. OCLC 750831024. 
^ Black Rose Books (1997, pp. 256, 82)
^ "Britannica: Anarchism". Dwardmac.pitzer.edu. Retrieved 2011-11-14. 
^ Clark, John P. "Master Lao and the Anarchist Prince". 
^ Le Guin (2009, p. 20)
^ Rothbard, Murray (2005). Excerpt from "Concepts of the Role of Intellectuals in Social Change Toward Laissez Faire", The Journal of Libertarian Studies, Vol. IX, No. 2 (Fall 1990) at mises.org
^ Rothbard, Murray (2005). "The Ancient Chinese Libertarian Tradition", Mises Daily, (December 5, 2005) (original source unknown) at mises.org
^ Dorn (2008)
^ Boaz (1997)
^ Long (2003)


Further reading[edit]

Kaltenmark, Max (1969), Lao Tzu and Taoism, Translated by Greaves, Roger, Stanford, Calif: Stanford University Press, p. 176, ISBN 0-8047-0689-1 
Kohn, Livia; Lafargue, Michael, eds. (1998), Lao-Tzu and the Tao-Te-Ching, Albany: State University of New York Press, p. 320, ISBN 0-7914-3599-7 
Lao, Tzu (2009), Lao-Tzu's Taoteching, Porter, Bill (Red Pine) (3rd Revised ed.), Port Townsend, WA: Copper Canyon Press, p. 200, ISBN 978-1-55659-290-4 


Translations into English


Henricks, Robert G. (1992), Lao Tzu: Te-Tao Ching – A New Translation Based on the Recently Discovered Ma-wang-tui Texts (Classics of Ancient China), New York: Ballantine Books, p. 320, ISBN 0-345-37099-6 
Klaus, Hilmar (2009), The Tao of Wisdom. Laozi – Daodejing. Chinese–English–German. Aachen: Hochschulverlag, Aachen, Germany: Hochschulverlag, p. 600, ISBN 978-3-8107-0055-1 
Legge, James, The Tao Teh King, or The Tao and its characteristics 
Le Guin, Ursula K. (2009), Lao Tzu: Tao Te Ching: A Book about the Way and the Power of the Way (2nd ed.), Washington, D.C: Shambhala Publications Inc., p. 192, ISBN 978-1-59030-744-1 
Roberts, Moss (2004), Dao De Jing: The Book of the Way, Berkeley: University of California Press, p. 235, ISBN 0-520-24221-1 
Waley, Arthur (1994), The Way and Its Power: Lao Tzu's Tao Te Ching and Its Place in Chinese Thought, UNESCO Collection of Representative Works, New York: Grove Press, p. 262, ISBN 0-8021-5085-3 
Side-by-side translations of the Tao Te Ching

External links[edit]

Find more aboutLaoziat Wikipedia's sister projects

Definitions from Wiktionary
Media from Commons
Quotations from Wikiquote
Texts from Wikisource
Textbooks from Wikibooks



Works by Laozi at Project Gutenberg
Works by or about Laozi at Internet Archive
Works by Laozi at LibriVox (public domain audiobooks) 
Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy: Laozi
Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy: Laozi
Lao Tzu Life and Teachings
Lao Tzu at Goodreads







v
t
e


Chinese philosophy



Schools of Thought



Agriculturalism
Confucianism
Taoism
Han learning
Huang-Lao
Legalism
Mohism
Neo-Confucianism
Neo-Taoism
New Confucianism
Chinese Marxist Philosophy
School of Diplomacy
School of Names
School of Naturalists
Yangism

See also: Hundred Schools of Thought




Philosophers



Confucius
Gaozi
Gongsun Long
Han Feizi
Huan Tan
Huang Zongxi
Jin Yuelin
Laozi
Li Si
Lu Jiuyuan
Mencius
Mozi
Shang Yang
Su Qin
Sunzi
Tu Weiming
Wang Chong
Wang Fuzhi
Wang Yangming
Xu Xing
Xunzi
Yang Zhu
Zhang Yi
Zhu Xi
Zhuangzi
Zou Yan





Concepts



Dào: Way
Dé: Virtue
Fǎ: Model
Jiān ài: Universal Love
Jing: Reverence
Jìngzuo: Meditation
Lĭ: Ritual propriety
Li: Law
Mìng: Mandate or fate
Qì: Energy
Qing: Essence
Rén: Humaneness
Shén: Spirit
Si: Reflection
Tǐ: Substance
Tiān: Divine force
Wú wéi: Nonaction
Xiào: Filial piety
Xin: Disposition or intuition
Xing: Human nature
Yì: Righteousness
Yīnyáng: Interdependent opposites
Yòng: Function
Zhèngmíng: Rectification of names
Zhì: Intention or will; Wisdom or cleverness
Zìrán: Self-so or natural





Topics



Aesthetics
Epistemology
Ethics (Role ethics
State consequentialism)
Logic
Metaphysics
Political philosophy
Social philosophy
Theology





Regional schools



Lingnan Confucianism












v
t
e


Ethics



Theories



Casuistry
Consequentialism
Deontology

Kantian ethics


Ethics of care
Existentialist ethics
Meta-ethics
Particularism
Pragmatic ethics
Role ethics
Virtue ethics





Concepts



Autonomy
Axiology
Belief
Conscience
Consent
Equality
Care
Free will
Good and evil
Happiness
Ideal
Justice
Morality
Norm
Freedom
Principles
Suffering or Pain
Stewardship
Sympathy
Trust
Value
Virtue
Wrong
full index...





Philosophers



Laozi
Plato
Aristotle
Diogenes
Valluvar
Cicero
Confucius
Augustine of Hippo
Mencius
Mozi
Xunzi
Thomas Aquinas
Baruch Spinoza
David Hume
Immanuel Kant
Georg W. F. Hegel
Arthur Schopenhauer
Jeremy Bentham
John Stuart Mill
Søren Kierkegaard
Henry Sidgwick
Friedrich Nietzsche
G. E. Moore
Karl Barth
Paul Tillich
Dietrich Bonhoeffer
Philippa Foot
John Rawls
John Dewey
Bernard Williams
J. L. Mackie
G. E. M. Anscombe
William Frankena
Alasdair MacIntyre
R. M. Hare
Peter Singer
Derek Parfit
Thomas Nagel
Robert Merrihew Adams
Charles Taylor
Joxe Azurmendi
Christine Korsgaard
Martha Nussbaum
more...





Applied ethics



Bioethics
Business ethics
Discourse ethics
Environmental ethics
Legal ethics
Media ethics
Medical ethics
Nursing ethics
Professional ethics
Sexual ethics
Ethics of eating meat
Ethics of technology





Related articles



Christian ethics
Descriptive ethics
Ethics in religion
Evolutionary ethics
Feminist ethics
History of ethics
Ideology
Islamic ethics
Jewish ethics
Normative ethics
Philosophy of law
Political philosophy
Social philosophy








Portal
Category












v
t
e


Social and political philosophy



Philosophers



Alinsky
Ambedkar
Arendt
Aristotle
Augustine
Aurobindo
Aquinas
Aron
Averroes
Azurmendi
Badiou
Bakunin
Baudrillard
Bauman
Benoist
Bentham
Berlin
Bonald
Bosanquet
Burke
Judith Butler
Camus
Chanakya
Chomsky
Cicero
Comte
Confucius
De Beauvoir
Debord
Djilas
Du Bois
Durkheim
Emerson
Engels
Foucault
Fourier
Franklin
Gandhi
Gehlen
Gentile
Al-Ghazali
Gramsci
Grotius
Habermas
Han Fei
Hayek
Hegel
Heidegger
Hobbes
Hume
Irigaray
Jefferson
Kant
Kierkegaard
Kirk
Kropotkin
Laozi
Le Bon
Le Play
Leibniz
Lenin
Locke
Luxemburg
Machiavelli
Maistre
Malebranche
Mao
Marcuse
Maritain
Marsilius
Marx
Mencius
Michels
Mill
Mises
Montesquieu
Möser
Mozi
Muhammad
Negri
Nehru
Niebuhr
Nietzsche
Nozick
Oakeshott
Ortega
Paine
Pareto
Peterson
Pettit
Plamenatz
Plato
Polanyi
Popper
Radhakrishnan
Rand
Rawls
Renan
Rothbard
Rousseau
Royce
Ruskin
Russell
Sade
Santayana
Sarkar
Sartre
Schmitt
Searle
Shang
Simonović
Skinner
Smith
Socrates
Sombart
Spann
Spencer
Spinoza
Spirito
Stirner
Strauss
Sun
Sun Tzu
Taine
Taylor
Thucydides
Thoreau
Tocqueville
Vivekananda
Voltaire
Walzer
Weber
Žižek





Social theories



Ambedkarism
Anarchism
Authoritarianism
Collectivism
Communism
Communitarianism
Conflict theories
Confucianism
Consensus theory
Conservatism
Contractualism
Cosmopolitanism
Culturalism
Fascism
Feminist political theory
Gandhism
Individualism
Legalism
Liberalism
Libertarianism
Mohism
National liberalism
Republicanism
Social constructionism
Social constructivism
Social Darwinism
Social determinism
Socialism
Utilitarianism
Vaisheshika





Social concepts



Civil disobedience
Democracy
Four occupations
Justice
Law
Mandate of Heaven
Peace
Property
Revolution
Rights
Social contract
Society
War
more...





Related articles



Jurisprudence
Philosophy and economics
Philosophy of education
Philosophy of history
Philosophy of love
Philosophy of sex
Philosophy of social science
Political ethics
Social epistemology








Category
Portal
Task Force









Authority control



WorldCat Identities
VIAF: 294097641
LCCN: n80044882
ISNI: 0000 0001 2102 7366
GND: 118569678
SELIBR: 173381
SUDOC: 026965402
BNF: cb11911025n (data)
BIBSYS: 90809093
MusicBrainz: f3de2f3c-7d48-4d87-814b-d522014dd739
NLA: 36730192
NDL: 00316005
NKC: jn20030819017
BNE: XX957086
IATH: w6gm8f9t










 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Laozi&oldid=813010406"					
Categories: Laozi6th-century BC deaths6th-century BC philosophers7th-century BC birthsDeified Chinese peopleInvestiture of the Gods charactersLibertarian theoryPeople whose existence is disputedTaoismZhou dynasty philosophersZhou dynasty TaoistsHidden categories: CS1 Chinese-language sources (zh)Articles with hCardsArticles containing Chinese-language textArticles containing simplified Chinese-language textArticles with Project Gutenberg linksArticles with Internet Archive linksArticles with LibriVox linksAC with 14 elementsWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with SELIBR identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersWikipedia articles with BIBSYS identifiersWikipedia articles with MusicBrainz identifiersWikipedia articles with NLA identifiersWikipedia articles with SNAC-ID identifiersGood articlesPlace of birth unknownYear of birth unknownYear of death unknown 
