Spaceflight - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

For other uses, see Spaceflight (disambiguation).


Part of a series on


Spaceflight









History




Space Race
Timeline of spaceflight
Space probes
Lunar missions




Applications




Earth observation satellites
Spy satellites
Communications satellites
Satellite navigation
Space telescopes
Space exploration
Space tourism
Space colonization




Spacecraft




Robotic spacecraft

Satellite
Space probe
Cargo spacecraft


Human spaceflight

Space capsule
Space station
Spaceplane






Launch




Spaceport
Launch pad
Expendable and reusable launch vehicles
Escape velocity
Non-rocket spacelaunch




Destinations




Sub-orbital
Orbital
Moon
Interplanetary spaceflight
Interstellar travel
Intergalactic travel




Space agencies




ESA
CSA
RKA
CNES
DLR
ISA
CNSA
ISRO
NASA
JAXA




Private spaceflight




Bigelow Aerospace
Blue Origin
Orbital ATK
Sierra Nevada Corporation
SpaceX
Virgin Galactic




 Spaceflight portal





v
t
e







Part of a series on


Transport


Modes




Animal-powered
Air
Cable
Human-powered
Land

Rail
Road


Pipeline
Space
Water




Topics




History

Timeline


Outline




 Transport portal





v
t
e





Spaceflight (also written space flight) is ballistic flight into or through outer space. Spaceflight can occur with spacecraft with or without humans on board. Examples of human spaceflight include the U.S. Apollo Moon landing and Space Shuttle programs and the Russian Soyuz program, as well as the ongoing International Space Station. Examples of unmanned spaceflight include space probes that leave Earth orbit, as well as satellites in orbit around Earth, such as communications satellites. These operate either by telerobotic control or are fully autonomous.
Spaceflight is used in space exploration, and also in commercial activities like space tourism and satellite telecommunications. Additional non-commercial uses of spaceflight include space observatories, reconnaissance satellites and other Earth observation satellites.
A spaceflight typically begins with a rocket launch, which provides the initial thrust to overcome the force of gravity and propels the spacecraft from the surface of the Earth. Once in space, the motion of a spacecraft—both when unpropelled and when under propulsion—is covered by the area of study called astrodynamics. Some spacecraft remain in space indefinitely, some disintegrate during atmospheric reentry, and others reach a planetary or lunar surface for landing or impact.



Contents


1 History
2 Phases

2.1 Launch
2.2 Reaching space

2.2.1 Alternatives


2.3 Leaving orbit
2.4 Astrodynamics
2.5 Transfer energy
2.6 Reentry
2.7 Landing
2.8 Recovery


3 Types

3.1 Unmanned

3.1.1 Benefits
3.1.2 Telepresence


3.2 Human
3.3 Sub-orbital

3.3.1 Point-to-point


3.4 Orbital
3.5 Interplanetary
3.6 Interstellar
3.7 Intergalactic


4 Spacecraft

4.1 Propulsion
4.2 Launch systems

4.2.1 Expendable
4.2.2 Reusable




5 Challenges

5.1 Space disasters
5.2 Weightlessness
5.3 Radiation
5.4 Life support
5.5 Space weather
5.6 Environmental considerations


6 Applications
7 See also
8 References
9 Further reading
10 External links



History[edit]
Main articles: History of spaceflight and Timeline of spaceflight




Tsiolkovsky, early space theorist


The first theoretical proposal of space travel using rockets was published by Scottish astronomer and mathematician William Leitch, in an 1861 essay "A Journey Through Space".[1] More well-known (though not widely outside Russia) is Konstantin Tsiolkovsky's work, "Исследование мировых пространств реактивными приборами" (The Exploration of Cosmic Space by Means of Reaction Devices), published in 1903.
Spaceflight became an engineering possibility with the work of Robert H. Goddard's publication in 1919 of his paper A Method of Reaching Extreme Altitudes. His application of the de Laval nozzle to liquid fuel rockets improved efficiency enough for interplanetary travel to become possible. He also proved in the laboratory that rockets would work in the vacuum of space;[specify] nonetheless, his work was not taken seriously by the public. His attempt to secure an Army contract for a rocket-propelled weapon in the first World War was defeated by the November 11, 1918 armistice with Germany.
Nonetheless, Goddard's paper was highly influential on Hermann Oberth, who in turn influenced Wernher von Braun. Von Braun became the first to produce modern rockets as guided weapons, employed by Adolf Hitler. Von Braun's V-2 was the first rocket to reach space, at an altitude of 189 kilometers (102 nautical miles) on a June 1944 test flight.[2]
Tsiolkovsky's rocketry work was not fully appreciated in his lifetime, but he influenced Sergey Korolev, who became the Soviet Union's chief rocket designer under Joseph Stalin, to develop intercontinental ballistic missiles to carry nuclear weapons as a counter measure to United States bomber planes. Derivatives of Korolev's R-7 Semyorka missiles were used to launch the world's first artificial Earth satellite, Sputnik 1, on October 4, 1957, and later the first human to orbit the Earth, Yuri Gagarin in Vostok 1, on April 12, 1961.[3]
At the end of World War II, von Braun and most of his rocket team surrendered to the United States, and were expatriated to work on American missiles at what became the Army Ballistic Missile Agency. This work on missiles such as Juno I and Atlas enabled launch of the first US satellite Explorer 1 on February 1, 1958, and the first American in orbit, John Glenn in Friendship 7 on February 20, 1962. As director of the Marshall Space Flight Center, Von Braun oversaw development of a larger class of rocket called Saturn, which allowed the US to send the first two humans, Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin, to the Moon and back on Apollo 11 in July 1969. Over the same period, the Soviet Union secretly tried but failed to develop the N1 rocket to give them the capability to land one person on the Moon.
Phases[edit]
Launch[edit]
Main article: Rocket launch




Saturn V on the launch pad before the launch of Apollo 4


Rockets are the only means currently capable of reaching orbit or beyond. Other non-rocket spacelaunch technologies have yet to be built, or remain short of orbital speeds. A rocket launch for a spaceflight usually starts from a spaceport (cosmodrome), which may be equipped with launch complexes and launch pads for vertical rocket launches, and runways for takeoff and landing of carrier airplanes and winged spacecraft. Spaceports are situated well away from human habitation for noise and safety reasons. ICBMs have various special launching facilities.
A launch is often restricted to certain launch windows. These windows depend upon the position of celestial bodies and orbits relative to the launch site. The biggest influence is often the rotation of the Earth itself. Once launched, orbits are normally located within relatively constant flat planes at a fixed angle to the axis of the Earth, and the Earth rotates within this orbit.
A launch pad is a fixed structure designed to dispatch airborne vehicles. It generally consists of a launch tower and flame trench. It is surrounded by equipment used to erect, fuel, and maintain launch vehicles.
Reaching space[edit]
The most commonly used definition of outer space is everything beyond the Kármán line, which is 100 kilometers (62 mi) above the Earth's surface. The United States sometimes defines outer space as everything beyond 50 miles (80 km) in altitude.
Rockets are the only currently practical means of reaching space. Conventional airplane engines cannot reach space due to the lack of oxygen. Rocket engines expel propellant to provide forward thrust that generates enough delta-v (change in velocity) to reach orbit.
For manned launch systems launch escape systems are frequently fitted to allow astronauts to escape in the case of emergency.
Alternatives[edit]
Main article: Non-rocket spacelaunch
Many ways to reach space other than rockets have been proposed. Ideas such as the space elevator, and momentum exchange tethers like rotovators or skyhooks require new materials much stronger than any currently known. Electromagnetic launchers such as launch loops might be feasible with current technology. Other ideas include rocket assisted aircraft/spaceplanes such as Reaction Engines Skylon (currently in early stage development), scramjet powered spaceplanes, and RBCC powered spaceplanes. Gun launch has been proposed for cargo.
Leaving orbit[edit]
Main articles: Escape velocity and Direct injection (disambiguation)




Launched in 1959, Luna 1 was the first known man-made object to achieve escape velocity from the Earth.[4] (replica pictured)


Achieving a closed orbit is not essential to lunar and interplanetary voyages. Early Russian space vehicles successfully achieved very high altitudes without going into orbit. NASA considered launching Apollo missions directly into lunar trajectories but adopted the strategy of first entering a temporary parking orbit and then performing a separate burn several orbits later onto a lunar trajectory. This costs additional propellant because the parking orbit perigee must be high enough to prevent reentry while direct injection can have an arbitrarily low perigee because it will never be reached.
However, the parking orbit approach greatly simplified Apollo mission planning in several important ways. It substantially widened the allowable launch windows, increasing the chance of a successful launch despite minor technical problems during the countdown. The parking orbit was a stable "mission plateau" that gave the crew and controllers several hours to thoroughly check out the spacecraft after the stresses of launch before committing it to a long lunar flight; the crew could quickly return to Earth, if necessary, or an alternate Earth-orbital mission could be conducted. The parking orbit also enabled translunar trajectories that avoided the densest parts of the Van Allen radiation belts.
Apollo missions minimized the performance penalty of the parking orbit by keeping its altitude as low as possible. For example, Apollo 15 used an unusually low parking orbit (even for Apollo) of 92.5 nmi by 91.5 nmi (171 km by 169 km) where there was significant atmospheric drag. But it was partially overcome by continuous venting of hydrogen from the third stage of the Saturn V, and was in any event tolerable for the short stay.
Robotic missions do not require an abort capability or radiation minimization, and because modern launchers routinely meet "instantaneous" launch windows, space probes to the Moon and other planets generally use direct injection to maximize performance. Although some might coast briefly during the launch sequence, they do not complete one or more full parking orbits before the burn that injects them onto an Earth escape trajectory.
Note that the escape velocity from a celestial body decreases with altitude above that body. However, it is more fuel-efficient for a craft to burn its fuel as close to the ground as possible; see Oberth effect and reference.[5] This is another way to explain the performance penalty associated with establishing the safe perigee of a parking orbit.
Plans for future crewed interplanetary spaceflight missions often include final vehicle assembly in Earth orbit, such as NASA's Project Orion and Russia's Kliper/Parom tandem.
Astrodynamics[edit]
Main article: Orbital mechanics
Astrodynamics is the study of spacecraft trajectories, particularly as they relate to gravitational and propulsion effects. Astrodynamics allows for a spacecraft to arrive at its destination at the correct time without excessive propellant use. An orbital maneuvering system may be needed to maintain or change orbits.
Non-rocket orbital propulsion methods include solar sails, magnetic sails, plasma-bubble magnetic systems, and using gravitational slingshot effects.




Ionized gas trail from Shuttle reentry



Recovery of Discoverer 14 return capsule by a C-119 airplane



Transfer energy[edit]
The term "transfer energy" means the total amount of energy imparted by a rocket stage to its payload. This can be the energy imparted by a first stage of a launch vehicle to an upper stage plus payload, or by an upper stage or spacecraft kick motor to a spacecraft.[6][7]
Reentry[edit]
Main article: Atmospheric reentry
Vehicles in orbit have large amounts of kinetic energy. This energy must be discarded if the vehicle is to land safely without vaporizing in the atmosphere. Typically this process requires special methods to protect against aerodynamic heating. The theory behind reentry was developed by Harry Julian Allen. Based on this theory, reentry vehicles present blunt shapes to the atmosphere for reentry. Blunt shapes mean that less than 1% of the kinetic energy ends up as heat that reaches the vehicle and the heat energy instead ends up in the atmosphere.
Landing[edit]
The Mercury, Gemini, and Apollo capsules all splashed down in the sea. These capsules were designed to land at relatively low speeds with the help of a parachute. Russian capsules for Soyuz make use of a big parachute and braking rockets to touch down on land. The Space Shuttle glided to a touchdown like a plane.
Recovery[edit]
After a successful landing the spacecraft, its occupants and cargo can be recovered. In some cases, recovery has occurred before landing: while a spacecraft is still descending on its parachute, it can be snagged by a specially designed aircraft. This mid-air retrieval technique was used to recover the film canisters from the Corona spy satellites.
Types[edit]
Unmanned[edit]
See also: Unmanned spacecraft and robotic spacecraft




Sojourner takes its APXS measurement of the Yogi Rock.






The MESSENGER spacecraft at Mercury (artist's interpretation)


Unmanned spaceflight is all spaceflight activity without a necessary human presence in space. This includes all space probes, satellites and robotic spacecraft and missions. Unmanned spaceflight is the opposite of manned spaceflight, which is usually called human spaceflight. Subcategories of unmanned spaceflight are “robotic spacecraft” (objects) and “robotic space missions” (activities). A robotic spacecraft is an unmanned spacecraft with no humans on board, that is usually under telerobotic control. A robotic spacecraft designed to make scientific research measurements is often called a space probe.
Unmanned space missions use remote-controlled spacecraft. The first unmanned space mission was Sputnik I, launched October 4, 1957 to orbit the Earth. Space missions where animals but no humans are on-board are considered unmanned missions.
Benefits[edit]
Many space missions are more suited to telerobotic rather than crewed operation, due to lower cost and lower risk factors. In addition, some planetary destinations such as Venus or the vicinity of Jupiter are too hostile for human survival, given current technology. Outer planets such as Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune are too distant to reach with current crewed spaceflight technology, so telerobotic probes are the only way to explore them. Telerobotics also allows exploration of regions that are vulnerable to contamination by Earth micro-organisms since spacecraft can be sterilized. Humans can not be sterilized in the same way as a spaceship, as they coexist with numerous micro-organisms, and these micro-organisms are also hard to contain within a spaceship or spacesuit.
Telepresence[edit]
Telerobotics becomes telepresence when the time delay is short enough to permit control of the spacecraft in close to real time by humans. Even the two seconds light speed delay for the Moon is too far away for telepresence exploration from Earth. The L1 and L2 positions permit 400-millisecond round trip delays, which is just close enough for telepresence operation. Telepresence has also been suggested as a way to repair satellites in Earth orbit from Earth. The Exploration Telerobotics Symposium in 2012 explored this and other topics.[8]
Human[edit]
Main article: Human spaceflight




ISS crew member stores samples


The first human spaceflight was Vostok 1 on April 12, 1961, on which cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin of the USSR made one orbit around the Earth. In official Soviet documents, there is no mention of the fact that Gagarin parachuted the final seven miles.[9] Currently, the only spacecraft regularly used for human spaceflight are the Russian Soyuz spacecraft and the Chinese Shenzhou spacecraft. The U.S. Space Shuttle fleet operated from April 1981 until July 2011. SpaceShipOne has conducted two human suborbital spaceflights.
Sub-orbital[edit]
Main article: Sub-orbital spaceflight




The International Space Station in Earth orbit after a visit from the crew of STS-119


On a sub-orbital spaceflight the spacecraft reaches space and then returns to the atmosphere after following a (primarily) ballistic trajectory. This is usually because of insufficient specific orbital energy, in which case a suborbital flight will last only a few minutes, but it is also possible for an object with enough energy for an orbit to have a trajectory that intersects the Earth's atmosphere, sometimes after many hours. Pioneer 1 was NASA's first space probe intended to reach the Moon. A partial failure caused it to instead follow a suborbital trajectory to an altitude of 113,854 kilometers (70,746 mi) before reentering the Earth's atmosphere 43 hours after launch.
The most generally recognized boundary of space is the Kármán line 100 km above sea level. (NASA alternatively defines an astronaut as someone who has flown more than 50 miles (80 km) above sea level.) It is not generally recognized by the public that the increase in potential energy required to pass the Kármán line is only about 3% of the orbital energy (potential plus kinetic energy) required by the lowest possible Earth orbit (a circular orbit just above the Kármán line.) In other words, it is far easier to reach space than to stay there. On May 17, 2004, Civilian Space eXploration Team launched the GoFast Rocket on a suborbital flight, the first amateur spaceflight. On June 21, 2004, SpaceShipOne was used for the first privately funded human spaceflight.
Point-to-point[edit]
Point-to-point sub-orbital spaceflight is a category of spaceflight in which a spacecraft uses a sub-orbital flight for transportation. This can provide a two-hour trip from London to Sydney, which would be much faster than what is currently over a twenty-hour flight. Today, no company offers this type of spaceflight for transportation. However, Virgin Galactic has plans for a spaceplane called SpaceShipThree, which could offer this service in the future.[10] Suborbital spaceflight over an intercontinental distance requires a vehicle velocity that is only a little lower than the velocity required to reach low Earth orbit.[11] If rockets are used, the size of the rocket relative to the payload is similar to an Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM). Any intercontinental spaceflight has to surmount problems of heating during atmosphere re-entry that are nearly as large as those faced by orbital spaceflight.
Orbital[edit]
Main article: Orbital spaceflight




Apollo 6 heads into orbit


A minimal orbital spaceflight requires much higher velocities than a minimal sub-orbital flight, and so it is technologically much more challenging to achieve. To achieve orbital spaceflight, the tangential velocity around the Earth is as important as altitude. In order to perform a stable and lasting flight in space, the spacecraft must reach the minimal orbital speed required for a closed orbit.
Interplanetary[edit]
Main article: Interplanetary spaceflight
Interplanetary travel is travel between planets within a single planetary system. In practice, the use of the term is confined to travel between the planets of our Solar System.
Interstellar[edit]
Main article: Interstellar travel
Five spacecraft are currently leaving the Solar System on escape trajectories, Voyager 1, Voyager 2, Pioneer 10, Pioneer 11, and New Horizons. The one farthest from the Sun is Voyager 1, which is more than 100 AU distant and is moving at 3.6 AU per year.[12] In comparison, Proxima Centauri, the closest star other than the Sun, is 267,000 AU distant. It will take Voyager 1 over 74,000 years to reach this distance. Vehicle designs using other techniques, such as nuclear pulse propulsion are likely to be able to reach the nearest star significantly faster. Another possibility that could allow for human interstellar spaceflight is to make use of time dilation, as this would make it possible for passengers in a fast-moving vehicle to travel further into the future while aging very little, in that their great speed slows down the rate of passage of on-board time. However, attaining such high speeds would still require the use of some new, advanced method of propulsion.
Intergalactic[edit]
Main article: Intergalactic travel
Intergalactic travel involves spaceflight between galaxies, and is considered much more technologically demanding than even interstellar travel and, by current engineering terms, is considered science fiction.
Spacecraft[edit]
Main article: Spacecraft




An Apollo Lunar Module on the lunar surface


Spacecraft are vehicles capable of controlling their trajectory through space.
The first 'true spacecraft' is sometimes said to be Apollo Lunar Module,[13] since this was the only manned vehicle to have been designed for, and operated only in space; and is notable for its non aerodynamic shape.
Propulsion[edit]
Main article: Spacecraft propulsion
Spacecraft today predominantly use rockets for propulsion, but other propulsion techniques such as ion drives are becoming more common, particularly for unmanned vehicles, and this can significantly reduce the vehicle's mass and increase its delta-v.
Launch systems[edit]
Main article: Launch vehicle
Launch systems are used to carry a payload from Earth's surface into outer space.
Expendable[edit]
Main article: Expendable launch system

All current spaceflight uses multi-stage expendable launch systems to reach space.

Reusable[edit]
Main article: Reusable launch system

The first reusable spacecraft, the X-15, was air-launched on a suborbital trajectory on July 19, 1963. The first partially reusable orbital spacecraft, the Space Shuttle, was launched by the USA on the 20th anniversary of Yuri Gagarin's flight, on April 12, 1981. During the Shuttle era, six orbiters were built, all of which have flown in the atmosphere and five of which have flown in space. The Enterprise was used only for approach and landing tests, launching from the back of a Boeing 747 and gliding to deadstick landings at Edwards AFB, California. The first Space Shuttle to fly into space was the Columbia, followed by the Challenger, Discovery, Atlantis, and Endeavour. The Endeavour was built to replace the Challenger, which was lost in January 1986. The Columbia broke up during reentry in February 2003.








The Space Shuttle Columbia seconds after engine ignition on mission STS-1








Columbia landing, concluding the STS-1 mission








Columbia launches again on STS-2






The first automatic partially reusable spacecraft was the Buran (Snowstorm), launched by the USSR on November 15, 1988, although it made only one flight. This spaceplane was designed for a crew and strongly resembled the US Space Shuttle, although its drop-off boosters used liquid propellants and its main engines were located at the base of what would be the external tank in the American Shuttle. Lack of funding, complicated by the dissolution of the USSR, prevented any further flights of Buran.


Per the Vision for Space Exploration, the Space Shuttle was retired in 2011 due mainly to its old age and high cost of the program reaching over a billion dollars per flight. The Shuttle's human transport role is to be replaced by the partially reusable Crew Exploration Vehicle (CEV) no later than 2021. The Shuttle's heavy cargo transport role is to be replaced by expendable rockets such as the Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle (EELV) or a Shuttle Derived Launch Vehicle.


Scaled Composites SpaceShipOne was a reusable suborbital spaceplane that carried pilots Mike Melvill and Brian Binnie on consecutive flights in 2004 to win the Ansari X Prize. The Spaceship Company will build its successor SpaceShipTwo. A fleet of SpaceShipTwos operated by Virgin Galactic planned to begin reusable private spaceflight carrying paying passengers (space tourists) in 2008, but this was delayed due to an accident in the propulsion development.[14]

Challenges[edit]
Main article: Effect of spaceflight on the human body
Space disasters[edit]
Main article: Space accidents and incidents
All launch vehicles contain a huge amount of energy that is needed for some part of it to reach orbit. There is therefore some risk that this energy can be released prematurely and suddenly, with significant effects. When a Delta II rocket exploded 13 seconds after launch on January 17, 1997, there were reports of store windows 10 miles (16 km) away being broken by the blast.[15]
Space is a fairly predictable environment, but there are still risks of accidental depressurization and the potential failure of equipment, some of which may be very newly developed.
In 2004 the International Association for the Advancement of Space Safety was established in the Netherlands to further international cooperation and scientific advancement in space systems safety.[16]
Weightlessness[edit]
Main article: Weightlessness




Astronauts on the ISS in weightless conditions. Michael Foale can be seen exercising in the foreground.


In a microgravity environment such as that provided by a spacecraft in orbit around the Earth, humans experience a sense of "weightlessness." Short-term exposure to microgravity causes space adaptation syndrome, a self-limiting nausea caused by derangement of the vestibular system. Long-term exposure causes multiple health issues. The most significant is bone loss, some of which is permanent, but microgravity also leads to significant deconditioning of muscular and cardiovascular tissues.
Radiation[edit]
Once above the atmosphere, radiation due to the Van Allen belts, solar radiation and cosmic radiation issues occur and increase. Further away from the Earth, solar flares can give a fatal radiation dose in minutes, and the health threat from cosmic radiation significantly increases the chances of cancer over a decade exposure or more.[17]
Life support[edit]
Main article: Life support system
In human spaceflight, the life support system is a group of devices that allow a human being to survive in outer space. NASA often uses the phrase Environmental Control and Life Support System or the acronym ECLSS when describing these systems for its human spaceflight missions.[18] The life support system may supply: air, water and food. It must also maintain the correct body temperature, an acceptable pressure on the body and deal with the body's waste products. Shielding against harmful external influences such as radiation and micro-meteorites may also be necessary. Components of the life support system are life-critical, and are designed and constructed using safety engineering techniques.
Space weather[edit]
Main article: Space weather




Aurora australis and Discovery, May 1991.


Space weather is the concept of changing environmental conditions in outer space. It is distinct from the concept of weather within a planetary atmosphere, and deals with phenomena involving ambient plasma, magnetic fields, radiation and other matter in space (generally close to Earth but also in interplanetary, and occasionally interstellar medium). "Space weather describes the conditions in space that affect Earth and its technological systems. Our space weather is a consequence of the behavior of the Sun, the nature of Earth's magnetic field, and our location in the Solar System."[19]
Space weather exerts a profound influence in several areas related to space exploration and development. Changing geomagnetic conditions can induce changes in atmospheric density causing the rapid degradation of spacecraft altitude in Low Earth orbit. Geomagnetic storms due to increased solar activity can potentially blind sensors aboard spacecraft, or interfere with on-board electronics. An understanding of space environmental conditions is also important in designing shielding and life support systems for manned spacecraft.
Environmental considerations[edit]
Rockets as a class are not inherently grossly polluting. However, some rockets use toxic propellants, and most vehicles use propellants that are not carbon neutral. Many solid rockets have chlorine in the form of perchlorate or other chemicals, and this can cause temporary local holes in the ozone layer. Re-entering spacecraft generate nitrates which also can temporarily impact the ozone layer. Most rockets are made of metals that can have an environmental impact during their construction.
In addition to the atmospheric effects there are effects on the near-Earth space environment. There is the possibility that orbit could become inaccessible for generations due to exponentially increasing space debris caused by spalling of satellites and vehicles (Kessler syndrome). Many launched vehicles today are therefore designed to be re-entered after use.
Applications[edit]




This shows an extreme ultraviolet view of the sun (the Apollo Telescope Mount SO82A Experiment) taken during Skylab 3, with the Earth added for scale. On the right an image of the Sun shows a helium emissions, and there is an image on the left showing emissions from iron. One application for spaceflight is to take observation hindered or made more difficult by being on Earth's surface. Skylab included a massive manned solar observatory that revolutionized solar science in the early 1970s using the Apollo-based space station in conjunction with manned spaceflights to it.


Current and proposed applications for spaceflight include:

Earth observation satellites such as Spy satellites, weather satellites
Space exploration
Communication satellites
Satellite television
Satellite navigation
Space tourism
Protecting Earth from Potentially hazardous objects
Space colonization

Most early spaceflight development was paid for by governments. However, today major launch markets such as Communication satellites and Satellite television are purely commercial, though many of the launchers were originally funded by governments.
Private spaceflight is a rapidly developing area: space flight that is not only paid for by corporations or even private individuals, but often provided by private spaceflight companies. These companies often assert that much of the previous high cost of access to space was caused by governmental inefficiencies they can avoid. This assertion can be supported by much lower published launch costs for private space launch vehicles such as Falcon 9 developed with private financing. Lower launch costs and excellent safety will be required for the applications such as Space tourism and especially Space colonization to become successful.
See also[edit]


Spaceflight portal
Technology portal




Aerial landscape art
Human mission to Mars
List of Solar System probes
List of spaceflight records
List of unmanned spacecraft by program
NewSpace
Orbiter (simulator)
Space logistics
Spacecraft propulsion
Timeline of artificial satellites and space probes
Timeline of Solar System exploration
U.S. space exploration history on U.S. stamps



References[edit]


^ Leitch, God's Glory in the Heavens, Google Books
^ "The V2 and the German, Russian and American Rocket Program", C. Reuter. German Canadian Museum. p. 170. ISBN 1-894643-05-4, ISBN 978-1-894643-05-4.
^ Peter Bond, Obituary: Lt-Gen Kerim Kerimov[dead link], The Independent, 7 April 2003.
^ "NASA – NSSDC – Spacecraft – Details". Nssdc.gsfc.nasa.gov. Retrieved November 5, 2013. 
^ Escape Velocity of Earth. Van.physics.uiuc.edu. Retrieved on 2011-10-05.
^ Lance K. Erickson (2010). Space Flight: History, Technology, and Operations. Government Institutes. p. 187. 
^ "Musk pre-launch backgrounder on Falcon 9 Flight 20". SpaceX press release. 22 December 2015. Retrieved 28 December 2015. 
^ Exploration Telerobotics Symposium Archived 2015-07-05 at the Wayback Machine. May 2–3, 2012 at NASA Goddard Space Flight Center.
^ Vostok 1. Astronautix.com. Retrieved on 2011-10-05.
^ SpaceShipThree revealed?, FlightGlobal Hyperbola, Rob Coppinger, 29 Feb 2008
^ David HoerrMonday, May 5, 2008 (May 5, 2008). "Point-to-point suborbital transportation: sounds good on paper, but…". The Space Review. Retrieved November 5, 2013. CS1 maint: Multiple names: authors list (link)
^ "Spacecraft escaping the Solar System". Heavens-Above GmbH. Archived from the original on April 27, 2007. 
^ Apollo Expeditions to the Moon: Chapter 10. History.nasa.gov (1969-03-03). Retrieved on 2011-10-05.
^ Launch aircraft development continues while suborbital ship awaits investigation into fatal explosion in California, retrieved 2012-01-27.
^ "Unmanned rocket explodes after liftoff". CNN. 
^ "The second IAASS: Introduction". Congrex. European Space Agency. Archived from the original on 24 July 2012. Retrieved 3 January 2009. 
^ Super Spaceships, NASA, 16 September 2002, Retrieved 25 October 2011.
^ "Breathing Easy on the Space Station". NASA. Archived from the original on 2008-09-21. 
^ Space Weather: A Research Perspective, National Academy of Science, 1997


Further reading[edit]

Erik Gregerson (2010): An Explorer´s Guide to the Universe – Unmanned Space Missions, Britannica Educational Publishing, ISBN 978-1-61530-052-5 (eBook)

External links[edit]
 Media related to Spaceflight at Wikimedia Commons



Look up spaceflight in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.



Aerospace engineering at Wikiversity
Encyclopedia Astronautica
Basics of Spaceflight
Tedd E. Hankins; H. Paul Shuch (1987-03-04). "REFLECTIONS – manned vs. unmanned spaceflight" (PDF). Retrieved 2011-04-15. 







v
t
e


Spaceflight



General



Astrodynamics
History

Timeline
Space Race
Asian Space Race
Records
Accidents and incidents


Space policy

China
European Union
India
Japan
Russia
Soviet Union
United States


Space law

Outer Space Treaty
Rescue Agreement
Space Liability Convention
Registration Convention
Moon Treaty


Private spaceflight








Applications



Astronomy
Earth observation

Archaeology
Imagery and mapping
Reconnaissance
Weather and environment monitoring


Satellite communications

Internet
Radio
Telephone
Television


Satellite navigation
Commercial use of space
Space launch market competition
Militarisation of space
Space architecture
Space exploration
Space research
Space technology
Space weather





Human spaceflight




General



Astronaut
Life support system

Animals in space
Bioastronautics
Space suit


Extravehicular activity
Weightlessness
Space tourism
Space colonization





Programs



Vostok
Mercury
Voskhod
Gemini
Soyuz
Apollo

Skylab
Apollo–Soyuz


Space Shuttle
Mir

Shuttle–Mir


International Space Station
Shenzhou
Tiangong





Health issues



Effect of spaceflight on the human body

Space adaptation syndrome


Health threat from cosmic rays
Psychological and sociological effects of spaceflight
Space and survival
Space medicine
Space nursing








Spacecraft



Launch vehicle
Rocket
Spaceplane
Robotic spacecraft

Satellite
Space probe
Lander
Rover
Self-replicating spacecraft


Spacecraft propulsion

Rocket engine
Electric propulsion
Solar sail
Gravity assist







Destinations



Sub-orbital
Orbital

Geocentric
Geosynchronous


Interplanetary
Interstellar
Intergalactic





Space launch



Direct ascent
Escape velocity
Expendable and reusable launch systems
Launch pad
Non-rocket spacelaunch
Spaceport





Ground segment



Flight controller
Ground station (Pass)
Mission control center





Space agencies



 CoNAE
 AEB
 CSA
 CNSA
 ESA
 CNES
 DLR
 ISRO
 LAPAN
 ISA
 ISA
 ASI
 JAXA
 NADA
 KARI
 SUPARCO
 Roscosmos
 SNSB
 SSAU
 UKSA
 NASA








  Category
  Portal
  WikiProject












v
t
e


Spaceflight lists and timelines






Timeline of spaceflight





General



Space exploration

outline
timeline


Spaceflight records
Space Race

Asian Space Race


Rocket and missile technology








Human spaceflight




General



Manned spacecraft

timeline


Spaceflights

1961–70
1971–80
1981–90
1991–2000
2001–10
2011–present
by program


Soviet
Russian
Vostok
Soyuz
Mercury
Gemini
Apollo
Skylab
Shenzhou
Spacelab





Salyut



Expeditions
Spaceflights

manned
unmanned


Spacewalks
Visitors





Mir



Expeditions
Spaceflights

manned
unmanned


Spacewalks
Visitors





ISS



Expeditions
Spaceflights

manned
unmanned


Spacewalks
Visitors





Shuttle



Crews
Missions

timeline


Rollbacks





People



Astronauts

by name
by year of selection
by first flight
Apollo
Gemini
Chinese
European
Cosmonauts
female
Jewish
Muslim
Arab
African-American


Space travelers by name
Space travelers by nationality

timeline







EVA



1965–1999
2000–2014
2015–present
Cumulative spacewalk records
Spacewalkers








Solar System exploration



Timeline
Interplanetary voyages
Landings on other planets

artificial objects


Objects at Lagrangian points
Probes

active
leaving the Solar System
lunar probes


Missions to the Moon
Timeline of satellites
Sample-return mission

Mars







Earth-orbiting satellites



Climate research
Communications satellite firsts
CubeSats
PocketQube
Earth observation satellites

timeline


Geosynchronous orbit
GOES
Kosmos
Magnetospheric
NRO
TDRS
USA





Vehicles



Orbital launch systems

Comparison


Sounding rockets
Spacecraft

unmanned
manned


Upper stages





Launches by rocket type



Ariane
Atlas
Black Brant
Falcon 9 and Heavy
Long March
Proton
R-7 (including Semyorka, Molniya, Vostok, Voskhod and Soyuz)
Scout
Thor and Delta
Titan
V-2 tests
Zenit





Launches by spaceport



Satish Dhawan





Agencies, companies
and facilities



Communications satellite companies

comparison


Private spaceflight companies
Rocket launch sites
Space agencies
Spacecraft manufacturers





Other mission lists
and timelines



First orbital launches by country
NASA missions

Constellation missions


Timeline of private spaceflight
Timeline of longest spaceflights












v
t
e


The Solar System








































The Sun
Mercury
Venus
Earth
Mars
Ceres
Jupiter
Saturn
Uranus
Neptune
Pluto
Haumea
Makemake
Eris





Planets



Terrestrial planets

Mercury
Venus
Earth
Mars


Giant planets

Jupiter
Saturn
Uranus
Neptune


Dwarf planets

Ceres
Pluto
Haumea
Makemake
Eris







Rings



Jovian
Saturnian (Rhean)
Charikloan
Chironean
Uranian
Neptunian
Haumean





Moons



1 Terrestrial (Moon)
Other near-Earth objects
2 Martian

Phobos
Deimos


69 Jovian

Ganymede
Callisto
Io
Europa
all


62 Saturnian

Titan
Rhea
Iapetus
Dione
Tethys
Enceladus
Mimas
Hyperion
Phoebe
all


27 Uranian

Titania
Oberon
Umbriel
Ariel
Miranda
all


14 Neptunian

Triton
Proteus
Nereid
all


5 Plutonian

Charon
Nix
Hydra
Kerberos
Styx


2 Haumean

Hiʻiaka
Namaka


1 Makemakean (S/2015 (136472) 1)
1 Eridian (Dysnomia)





Lists



Solar System objects

By size
By discovery date


Minor planets
Gravitationally rounded objects
Possible dwarf planets
Natural satellites
Comets





Small Solar
System bodies



Meteoroids
Minor planets

moons


Comets
Damocloids
Mercury-crossers
Venus-crossers
Venus trojans
Near-Earth objects
Earth-crossers
Earth trojans
Mars-crossers
Mars trojans
Asteroid belt
Asteroids

first discovered: Ceres
Pallas
Juno
Vesta


Families
Notable asteroids
Kirkwood gap
Main-belt comets
Jupiter trojans
Jupiter-crossers
Centaurs
Saturn-crossers
Uranus trojans
Uranus-crossers
Neptune trojans
Cis-Neptunian objects
Trans-Neptunian objects
Neptune-crossers
Plutoids
Kuiper belt

Plutinos
Cubewanos


Scattered disc
Detached objects
Sednoids
Hills cloud
Oort cloud





Hypothetical
objects



Vulcan
Vulcanoids
Phaeton
Planet V
Theia
Fifth giant
Planets beyond Neptune
Tyche
Nemesis
Planet Nine





Exploration
(outline)



Discovery

Astronomy
Timeline


Spaceflight
Robotic spacecraft
Human spaceflight
Colonization
List of probes
Timeline


Mercury
Venus
Moon
Mars
Ceres
Asteroids

Mining


Comets
Jupiter
Saturn
Uranus
Neptune
Pluto
Deep space








Outline of the Solar System
 Portals
Solar System
Astronomy
Earth sciences
Mars
Jupiter
Uranus
Cosmology

Solar System → Local Interstellar Cloud → Local Bubble → Gould Belt → Orion Arm → Milky Way → Milky Way subgroup → Local Group → Virgo Supercluster → Laniakea Supercluster → Observable universe → Universe
Each arrow (→) may be read as "within" or "part of".








Authority control



GND: 4048574-2










 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Spaceflight&oldid=806645466"					
Categories: SpaceflightHidden categories: All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from May 2016Webarchive template wayback linksCS1 maint: Multiple names: authors listArticles containing Russian-language textArticles needing more detailed referencesWikipedia articles with GND identifiers 
