Antenna TV - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

This article is about the television network in the United States. For television reception via antenna, see terrestrial television. For the Greek television network, see ANT1.

Antenna TV




Type



Digital broadcast network
(Classic TV series)





Country
United States


Availability



Nationwide via OTA digital TV
(Covering 87% of the U.S.)[1]





Founded
August 30, 2010 (2010-08-30)


Slogan
TV How It Was Meant to Be!


Headquarters
Chicago, Illinois


Owner



Tribune Broadcasting
(sale to Sinclair Broadcast Group pending[2])






Key people




Sean Compton
(President of Strategic Programming and Acquisitions, Tribune Broadcasting)






Launch date

January 1, 2011 (2011-01-01)


Affiliates
List of affiliates



Official website

antennatv.tv


Antenna TV is an American digital multicast television network that is owned by the Tribune Broadcasting subsidiary of Tribune Media. The network's programming consists of classic television series from the 1950s to the early 2000s, most of which are sourced from the content library of Sony Pictures Entertainment, along with a selection of series from Universal Studios, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and Carson Entertainment. Antenna TV's programming and advertising operations are headquartered in the Tribune Tower in Chicago, Illinois. The network's operations are overseen by Sean Compton, who serves as the president of strategic programming and acquisitions for Tribune Broadcasting.[1]
The network is available in many media markets via the digital subchannels of over-the-air broadcast television stations, and on select cable television providers through a local affiliate of the network. Antenna TV broadcasts 24 hours a day in 480i standard definition. It is a sister network to the movie-oriented multicast service This TV, in which Tribune Broadcasting maintains a 50% ownership stake.



Contents


1 History
2 Programming

2.1 Classic television series
2.2 Movies
2.3 Children's programming


3 Affiliates
4 References
5 External links



History[edit]




New logo, used from March 9, 2014


Tribune Broadcasting announced the formation of Antenna TV on August 30, 2010, with television stations owned by Tribune and Local TV (an Oak Hill Capital Partners-controlled holding company that Tribune had been co-managing since 2008, in an agreement that remained in place until Tribune completed its outright acquisition of the group in December 2013) serving as its initial charter affiliates;[3] Tribune originally intended to launch the network on January 3, 2011, though executives later chose to push the date of its debut two days ahead of schedule.[4]
Antenna TV was launched on January 1, 2011 at 12:00 a.m. Eastern Time (the late evening of December 31, 2010, in other U.S. time zones), initially debuting on seventeen Tribune-owned stations and thirteen stations owned by Local TV.[5][6][7] The first program to air on Antenna TV was the Three Stooges' first short Woman Haters as part of a marathon of short films involving the comedy trio (which became an annual New Year's Day tradition on the network that aired until 2015, originally airing as an all-day marathon before being reduced to airing only on New Year's Day morning in 2013).
On October 1, 2011, Antenna TV introduced block scheduling for most of its programs, organized by genre and the decade of their original broadcast; it included a weekday afternoon block of sitcoms from the 1950s, a weekend afternoon block of 1960s sitcoms (including the early 1970s sitcom, The Partridge Family), a Saturday night lineup of drama series (a genre of television programs which had previously aired on the network in very limited form on Sunday mornings only), an overnight block of classic television series from the black-and-white era of the 1950s and early 1960s, a Sunday prime time lineup of sitcoms from the 1990s, and a weeknight prime time lineup of comedies from the 1970s;[8] with the exception of the black-and-white program block (which was reduced to once a week and moved to Friday nights, where it remained – except for a brief sabbatical from January to April 2013 – until being dropped completely in November of that same year) and the Saturday night drama block (which was reduced to Saturday evenings only, and was later replaced by movies in September 2013), most of these blocks were dropped on March 26, 2012.[9]
In January 2016, Antenna TV added Johnny Carson’s Tonight Show to its schedule as Johnny Carson. The August 2015 announcement gave the network exposure plus another 26 new affiliates.[1]
By July 2016, Tribune was considering, with the network's success, adding a sister network, Antenna TV Classics, which would take shows that draw older audiences, with Antenna TV scheduling young drawing shows. At the time, the network had reached 86% of US households.[1]
In August 2017, Litton Entertainment launched a block of older E/I content for the network, replacing the former block managed by Bellum Entertainment Group.[10]
Programming[edit]
Main article: List of programs broadcast by Antenna TV
Antenna TV's program schedule relies on the extensive library of films and television programming currently owned by Sony Pictures Entertainment, which comprises more than 270 television series and over 4,000 films. The network maintains an Eastern Time schedule, with individual programs airing at the same time in the remainder of the country, though by effect, aired locally in earlier time slots from the Central Time Zone westward. As is common with digital multicast networks, advertisements featured during commercial breaks on Antenna TV primarily consist of direct response advertisements for products featured in infomercials and particularly during its Saturday morning children's programming, public service announcements; satellite provider Dish Network and insurance company Progressive are currently the network's primary national sponsors.
Initially, Antenna TV did not run a split-screen credit sequence at the conclusion of its programs. However, this policy changed in April 2015, when such a sequence (modeled in the style which many cable channels – including sister network WGN America – have used since the late 2000s, in which the show's normal credit sequence is downscaled to the left side of the screen as the opening teaser or title sequence of the next program – which is identified in a graphic framing both – starts simultaneously) began to be used on some programs aired in the daytime, gradually expanding to other dayparts through that summer. Programs airing as part of Antenna TV's weeknight prime time schedule (from 7:00 to 11:00 p.m. Eastern) were not affected until September 2015, when a variant split-screen sequence that incorporated program and network image promotions was introduced during that daypart. The network originally didn't display an on-screen logo bug during its programs but now does, affiliates can add their own bug during Antenna TV programming, with many that do displaying modified versions of logos that the affiliate station has used as part of their main branding in the past (for example, WPHL-TV in Philadelphia uses a variant of the logo it used from 1976 to 1987, under the brand "Channel 17, The Great Entertainer").[11] Since September 6, 2017, the use of split-screen credits was greatly reduced.
The network's original continuity announcer was Gary Owens (disc jockey and voice actor of Rowan and Martin's Laugh-In fame), who served in that capacity until his death on February 12, 2015, although promos that he voiced beforehand continued to air until that September. John B. Wells (co-host of the syndicated radio program Coast to Coast AM and narrator of Unsealed Alien Files) also provided promotional continuity from November 2011 to July 2015. Shadoe Stevens (who notably served as announcer for the John Davidson- and Tom Bergeron-hosted runs of Hollywood Squares, and later The Late Late Show with Craig Ferguson) became the network's main announcer in July 2015.[12]
Antenna TV also runs occasional marathons of series to which it holds rights through its content agreements on major occasions. Prior to "Antenna TV Theater"'s discontinuation, the network also aired movie marathons on Valentine's Day, Memorial Day, Veterans Day (until 2013) and Super Bowl Sunday (until 2015) and racing day in 2016. Among the marathons regularly carried by the network are those of Hazel and Father Knows Best that have respectively aired on Mother's Day and Father's Day annually since 2011 (in the former case, the exceptions were in 2015 and 2016, when it aired marathons of One Day at a Time, Family Ties and Sanford and Son on those holidays); it also airs a 48-hour marathon of holiday-themed episodes of its various series from Christmas Eve until Christmas night, which is interrupted for four hours on Christmas morning by its broadcast of the Yule Log (a filmed loop of logs burning inside a fireplace at Gracie Mansion set to a soundtrack of Christmas music, which first aired on co-owned New York City affiliate WPIX in December 1966).
The network also marks the occurrence of an actor's recent death (either an established or character) with an "in memoriam" bumper shown during breaks between certain programs, and an occasional afternoon-long marathon showcasing episodes of that artist's television series roles – either guest appearances, episodes of series in which the person was a regular cast member, or both. Episodes of series on the network's regular schedule that would normally air next in broadcast order and are pre-empted by some of the marathons are usually skipped over entirely as a result and held over until the next broadcast cycle, with episodes next in order being shown instead on the next scheduled airdate (depending on whether the episode cycle is uniform on all days that the program is broadcast or airs in separate episode runs for their weekday and weekend airings).
Classic television series[edit]
Antenna TV has program licensing agreements with Sony Pictures Entertainment (which includes series produced by Columbia Pictures Television, TriStar Television and their merged production unit Columbia TriStar Television (which was reorganized as Sony Pictures Television in 2002), Screen Gems, and ELP Communications (including predecessors Tandem Productions, T.A.T. Communications and Embassy Communications), CBS Television Distribution, and DLT Entertainment. The network also shares broadcast rights to classic television programs from the NBCUniversal Television Distribution and 20th Television libraries with competing Weigel Broadcasting-owned digital broadcast network and primary rightsholder MeTV (with Antenna TV gaining access to Universal's program library in the fall of 2011, after those shows were removed from the Retro Television Network, and access to 20th Television's library via its April 2012 acquisition of WKRP in Cincinnati with other series from the library being added in January 2015) and rights to select program titles from MGM Television (which includes series produced by Filmways and United Artists Television, but does not include content owned by its parent studio prior to the 1986 acquisition of films and television programs produced directly by MGM by Ted Turner) with Antenna TV sister network This TV.
The network's series programming primarily covers sitcoms – along with some select drama series – from the 1950s to the early 2000s and (as of January 2017[update]) includes shows such as Murphy Brown; Newhart ; Wings (TV series) ; My Two Dads ; Family Ties; Sabrina, the Teenage Witch; Growing Pains; I Dream of Jeannie; Bewitched; The George Burns and Gracie Allen Show; Mr. Belvedere; Head of the Class; Mork & Mindy; and The Hogan Family ; Silver Spoons.. While several series on the network have been widely syndicated on other television outlets in the United States and abroad, some series featured on the network (such as Hazel; Evening Shade; Soap (TV series) ; Doogie Howser, M.D.; Small Wonder not been seen on television – at least, in the U.S. – for several years or have been syndicated on a fairly inconsistent basis.
Drama series, which occupied a limited amount of the network's schedule for the first few months on the air, later expanded with an October 2011 programming realignment, with crime drama, mystery and suspense programs airing in an evening block on Saturdays, which included It Takes a Thief, Adam-12, Alfred Hitchcock Presents, S.W.A.T. and Suspense Theater; some of these programs are also aired during the week in limited form during the late afternoon and overnight hours. The Saturday drama block was discontinued in September 2012, with drama series on Saturdays being moved to the late afternoon hours and movies replacing them in prime time on that night. Drama series are now only seen on Saturday morning as of January 2017. In a rarity for television, Antenna TV has rotated a television series and its spinoffs on its schedule in the same hour, airing the shorter-lived spinoffs of Three's Company (The Ropers and Three's a Crowd) with the parent show being relegated to the first half-hour of the hour-long block (differing from the network's normal double-episode scheduling for its series) once they cycle back onto the schedule[13] (the cycling of The Ropers and Three's a Crowd ended with a January 2015 programming realignment that saw both series given their own separate weekend-only runs on the network). This discontinued when the Three's Company spinoffs were replaced with Saturday Summerthons.
On August 12, 2015, Tribune Broadcasting announced that it had acquired the rights to all surviving episodes of The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson through a multi-year agreement with Carson Entertainment Group, marking the first time that full episodes from that era of The Tonight Show would be shown on television (outside of excerpts aired as part of the clip series Carson's Comedy Classics) since his retirement in May 1992. The broadcasts – which began airing on January 1, 2016 under the network-substituted title Johnny Carson, as NBC holds ownership of The Tonight Show title and the episodes air partially opposite the current edition of Tonight in much of the United States – consist of episodes that originally aired from 1972 to 1992; episodes produced after September 1980 that ran 60 minutes in length (per a clause in Carson's renegotiated contract with NBC that reduced the running time of Tonight by a half-hour) air weeknights, while 90-minute episodes produced before September 1980 air on weekends.[14]
Movies[edit]
From the network's launch in January 2011 until May 2016, Antenna TV aired feature films under the umbrella title Antenna TV Theater.[7] In addition to access to television series owned by Sony Pictures Television, the agreement with Sony Pictures Entertainment also included access to movies from the Sony Pictures Motion Picture Group film library (including Columbia Pictures, TriStar Pictures, Sony Pictures Classics, Screen Gems, Triumph Films, and the television rights to the Embassy Pictures library). The film roster did not concentrate on films from any specific era, meaning any film from the 1930s to as late as the early 2000s could be featured on the network's schedule, although from 2014 to 2015, the vast majority of the films that aired on the network were pre-1980s releases.
During 2014, the network shared film content with sister network This TV (a movie-oriented broadcast network, whose transfer of operational control and partial ownership to Tribune from Weigel Broadcasting in November 2013 has partly influenced Antenna TV's removal of films); on certain occasions, a movie that aired on Antenna TV's film block would air on This TV on the same day or during the same week in different timeslots.
Starting in April 2013, Antenna TV gradually scaled back its film telecasts in favor of additional blocks of classic television series (particularly on weekday mornings, where Antenna TV Theater originally ran as a six-hour block from approximately 5:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. Eastern Time at the network's launch). Movies were eliminated from weekdays entirely as part of a schedule revamp in January 2015; the Antenna TV Theater block – which by that point, had been relegated to Saturday and Sunday mornings – ended on December 27, 2015, preceding a similar revamp that occurred six days later on January 1, 2016. Movies returned to the lineup in May 2016 as part of a marathon on racing films.
Children's programming[edit]
Antenna TV provides four hours of programming aimed at children on Saturday mornings (originally three hours until September 2015), consisting of shows originally distributed for syndication by Bellum Entertainment Group which complies with weekly requirements for educational children's programming defined in the Federal Communications Commission's Children's Television Act. On August 26, 2017, the network began to carry a block of older Litton Entertainment programming airing on Saturday mornings, replacing the former Bellum block.[10]
Affiliates[edit]
Main article: List of Antenna TV affiliates
As of February 2016[update], Antenna TV has current or pending affiliation agreements with television stations in 133 media markets (including 48 of the 50 largest markets) encompassing 43 states and the District of Columbia, covering 88% of the United States.[1] The network is offered to prospective affiliates on a barter basis, an agreement in which the station will get the programming at little or no cost in exchange for giving a certain amount of commercial time to the network. Despite this arrangement, some larger television markets without stations owned by Tribune did not affiliate with the network until 2015. As of May 1, 2016, the San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose market is the largest television market without an Antenna TV affiliate, after KRON-TV dropped the network in favor of Sony's GetTV.
Tribune Broadcasting planned to launch Antenna TV in all markets with stations owned by Tribune and, as part of a co-management agreement between the two groups that existed at the time of the network's launch, Local TV.[15] Tribune's flagship station WGN-TV in Chicago serves as the de facto flagship station of the network. In Denver and St. Louis, two of the markets where Tribune maintains duopolies, the Antenna TV affiliation went to digital subchannels of Local TV-owned Fox affiliates KDVR and KTVI, rather than on Tribune-owned CW affiliates KWGN-TV and KPLR-TV – which were operated alongside KDVR and KTVI under local marketing agreements – in order to address bandwidth concerns as the two Tribune outlets already maintained subchannels carrying This TV (ABC and Fox stations transmit their main signals by default in 720p, which provides a lower bit rate adequate for multiplexing of up to three subchannels, while the main channels of CBS, NBC and CW stations are usually transmitted in the higher resolution 1080i format, which utilizes a larger bit rate size that is more susceptible to causing pixellation of multiple subchannels).
However, not all of the charter affiliates added Antenna TV at its launch either to allow stations to reconfigure their bandwidth or to assure the affiliated subchannel's carriage on cable providers when the network launched locally. Fox affiliate KSTU in Salt Lake City, NBC affiliate WHO-TV in Des Moines (both owned by Local TV at the time) and CW affiliate WDCW in Washington, D.C. (owned by Tribune) debuted the network on their digital subchannels later during January 2011; while NBC affiliate KFOR-TV in Oklahoma City did not add the network until April 21, 2011 on a new third digital subchannel (it has since been moved to that station's second subchannel). The final Tribune/Local TV market to add the network was Fort Smith, Arkansas, where Fayetteville-based MyNetworkTV affiliate KXNW began carrying the network on January 5, 2012 as an overnight secondary service; Antenna TV was unable to launch in the market prior to the KXNW purchase due to existing syndicated programming rights held by CBS-affiliated sister KFSM-TV for its MyNetworkTV-affiliated subchannel (which now acts as a KXNW simulcast) and the station's main signal being transmitted in 1080i, which precluded a launch of a third subchannel without affecting picture quality. Some affiliates (such as KTLA in Los Angeles) aired preview blocks of Antenna TV programming on their primary channel in the lead-up to the launch date.[16] In the wake of Universal Sports converting from a digital broadcast to a cable and satellite service on January 1, 2012, most stations affiliated with that network signed affiliation agreements with Antenna TV (or MeTV) to serve as a replacement.
To date, Antenna TV has had three instances of switching affiliates in the same market. In Honolulu, Hawaii, the network moved from charter affiliate KUPU (one of only two stations that carried the network on its primary channel, the other being KXNW, which is the only affiliate that continues to do so) to the secondary subchannel of NBC affiliate KHNL in May 2012, as KUPU was not available on cable television in areas of the state outside the Honolulu metropolitan area whereas KNHL has widespread cable penetration. WJZY in Charlotte, North Carolina, which served as its original affiliate for that market, replaced Antenna TV on its 46.2 subchannel with Movies! (a network part-owned by Fox Television Stations, which bought WJZY in April 2013) on July 1, 2014; WCCB (which, incidentally, assumed the CW affiliation held by WJZY when the latter switched to Fox on July 1, 2013) began carrying Antenna TV on digital subchannel 18.2 on August 15 of that year. WSTR-TV in Cincinnati added the network on January 1, 2016, displacing GetTV on its 64.2 subchannel, one month after the network terminated its affiliation with low-power outlet WOTH-CD2 to expand its coverage within the market.[17]
On November 17, 2015, Tribune announced that it had signed affiliation agreements with the Sinclair Broadcast Group and partner company Deerfield Media, Tegna Media, Red River Broadcasting and GOCOM Media to add Antenna TV to stations in 26 markets (including many large and mid-sized markets where the network did not previously have an affiliate, including Pittsburgh; Baltimore; Nashville; Birmingham; Green Bay and Savannah).[18] On January 6, 2016, the network also announced an agreement with E. W. Scripps Company-owned WMYD in Detroit, which picked up the affiliation in February 2016, six months after WADL disaffiliated from Antenna TV, which briefly left Detroit as the largest market where the network did not have an affiliate.[19] Sean Compton, president of strategic programming and acquisitions for Tribune Broadcasting, credited Antenna TV's acquisition of rights to the Johnny Carson-era Tonight Show episodes in part behind the newfound interest from affiliates, which helped its station portfolio gain ground with competitor MeTV (which has the most affiliates of any American digital multicast network).
Individual programs aired by the network may be substituted if a station other than that which serves as the market's Antenna TV affiliate holds the local syndication rights; as an example, from April 2012 to November 2013, KTLA aired a rebroadcast of that station's weeknight 6:00 p.m. newscast on Monday through Thursdays over its 5.2 subchannel, in place of the network's broadcast of Married... with Children (which it aired in an hour-long block and was shown locally at 8:00 p.m. Pacific Time), as the local rights to the sitcom were held by Anaheim-based independent station KDOC-TV. When Soap replaced Married... on the network's Sunday evening lineup in May 2011, during the latter's original run on Antenna TV, a rebroadcast of KTLA's early evening newscast which aired on that night was dropped in order to allow Soap to air locally.
In markets where an Antenna TV-affiliated station acts as a broadcast partner of either sports syndication service, some of its stations (notably among them, WHNT-DT2 in Huntsville, Alabama and WOAI-DT2 in San Antonio) preempt programming carried by the network in order to carry college sports events produced by either the Raycom Sports-operated ACC Network or the Sinclair-owned American Sports Network. While these preemptions typically occur on Saturday afternoons, in many instances, such stations may preempt certain programs aired within the network's prime time lineup, either to allow the affiliated subchannel to serve as an alternate feed of the partner sports service in lieu of the parent station's main channel or a co-owned/co-managed sister station, or to carry programs aired by a major broadcast network with which the station maintains a primary affiliation so the events can air on the main channel.
References[edit]


Television portal




^ a b c d e Buckman, Adam (July 26, 2016). "Diginets Keep Growing, Despite Auction Cloud". TVNewsCheck. Retrieved August 31, 2016. 
^ Littleton, Cynthia (May 8, 2017). "Sinclair Broadcast Group Sets $3.9 Billion Deal to Acquire Tribune Media". Variety. Retrieved May 10, 2017. 
^ "Tribune TV stations launching classic TV rerun channel". Radio & Television Business Report. Streamline-RBR, Inc. August 30, 2010. Retrieved May 13, 2011. 
^ "Tribune set to launch Antenna TV". Radio & Television Business Report. Streamline-RBR, Inc. December 1, 2010. Retrieved May 13, 2011. 
^ "Tribune Launching Classic TV Multicast Network". Broadcasting & Cable. NewBay Media. August 30, 2010. 
^ "Tribune Company Launching Digital Subchannel Antenna TV Network". Chicago Tribune. Tribune Publishing. August 30, 2010. 
^ a b "Antenna TV Launch Schedule Starting January 2011". Sitcoms Online. October 21, 2010. 
^ "Antenna TV Fall 2011 Schedule Updated With Beaver, Bachelor Father & More". Sitcoms Online. September 2011. 
^ "Antenna TV Spring 2012 Schedule With Addition Of WKRP". Sitcoms Online. March 5, 2012. 
^ a b "TRIBUNE BROADCASTING AND LITTON ENTERTAINMENT ANNOUNCE NEW E/I BLOCK FOR ANTENNA TV" (Press release). Litton Entertainment. January 25, 2017. Retrieved February 27, 2017. 
^ "Our Exclusive Interview with Antenna TV's Sean Compton; KTLA Preview of Antenna TV". Sitcoms Online. December 16, 2010. 
^ "Susan Sarandon reunites with Nick Nolte for EPIX satire; South Park lands mega renewal deals; Miss Universe pageant finds new co-hosts". Cynopsis. July 9, 2015. Retrieved July 9, 2015. 
^ "Antenna TV Launch Schedule Starting January 2011". Sitcoms Online. October 21, 2010. 
^ Cynthia Littleton (August 12, 2015). "Johnny Carson Returns: Antenna TV to Air Full 'Tonight Show' Episodes". Variety. Penske Media Corporation. 
^ "Antenna TV affiliate list". Antenna TV. Retrieved January 1, 2011. 
^ "KTLA Preview of Antenna TV". Sitcoms Online. December 2010. Retrieved February 11, 2011. 
^ John Kiesewetter (December 11, 2015). "WSTR-TV adds Antenna TV For Johnny Carson 'Tonight Show' Reruns". WVXU. Cincinnati Public Radio. Retrieved October 15, 2015. 
^ Adam Buckman (November 17, 2015). "Antenna TV Adds 26 New Stations". TVNewsCheck. NewsCheck Media. Retrieved February 8, 2016. Antenna TV announced today that its affiliate lineup has grown to 125 in recent months to reach 88% of U.S. TV households. 
^ "Antenna TV Diginet Adds WMYD In Detroit". TVNewsCheck. NewsCheck Media. January 6, 2016. Retrieved February 8, 2016. 


External links[edit]

Official website





Articles and topics related to Antenna TV











v
t
e


Broadcast television networks in the United States










v
t
e


English-language broadcast television networks in the United States



Major



ABC
CBS
The CW
Fox
NBC





Minor



AMG
Ion
MyNetwork
Youtoo America





Public TV



PBS

Kids


American Public Television

Create
World


CAS
MHz Worldview
NASA TV





Specialty




Information



Cheddar
Doctor
Weather

AccuWeather
WeatherNation







Sports



Frost Great Outdoors
Pursuit
Rev'n
Stadium
Untamed





Other



Family Channel
Justice
Qubo
TBD
Ethnic

Asia Vision
Bounce
Soul of the South


Gender

Escape
Grit
Tuff


Lifestyle

Ion Life
LWN


Music

TCN
Heartland







International



CV
DW
France 24
NHK
Korean

Arirang
KBS
KEMS
MBC
SBS







Classic



Antenna
Cozi
Decades
Get
Light
Me
Retro
Movies

Movies!
This






Genre



Buzzr
Charge!
Comet
H&I
Laff








Shopping



Evine
HSN
Jewelry
LifehacksDRTV
OnTV4U
QVC
Shop LC








Defunct




Major



DuMont
NET
UPN
The WB





Minor



A1
AIN
Ch.America
FamilyNetc
Hughes
Mizlou
N1
NATVi
NTA Film
Omni
ON/UN
PTN
Plum
PTEN
SFM Holiday
Star
Theater
TVS
UATV
Variety
Works





Specialty



News

ABC News Now
All News
DoD News
NBC Wx+/NBC+
TouchVision


Dot2
PBJ
Research
Sportsmanc
Sports

American Sports Network
Universal


WSTV
Shopping

America's Store
Gems TV
Gun TV
Shop at Home







Music



Bohemia Visual Musici
The Box
MTV2c
Tr3sc
Retro Jams
TheCoolTVi
The Tube






c - Now cable-only, i - Now internet-only
















v
t
e


Spanish-language broadcast television networks in the United States



Major



Azteca América
Estrella TV
Telemundo
UniMás
Univision





Specialty



LATV (bilingual English/Spanish)
Mega TV
Cine Mexicano
Tele N
MiCasa Network
Mira TV
Multimedios
¡Sorpresa!
TeleXitos
TeLe-Romántica
Tr3́s





Defunct



América CV
Hispanic Television Network
Inmigrante TV
LAT TV
MundoMax
Soi TV
TuVisión
VasalloVision















v
t
e


Religious broadcast television networks in the United States



TBN Networks



TBN
Hillsong
JUCE
Smile
Enlace (in Spanish)
Salsa





English







3ABN
Al Karma TV
Amazing Facts
BYU
Catholic
CBN
CTN
Cornerstone
Daystar
EICB
EWTN
Family
GEB
GLC
GOD
Hope
Hope Church
INSP
IQRA TV
Loma Linda
Sonlife
Telecare
Tri-State
Total Living
Unity
Walk
Word
World Harvest
Worship








Spanish



3ABN Latino
Aliento Vision
Almavisión
Aviva TV
CTNi
Esperanza TV
Familia TV
Fe-TV
HCCN
Iglesia JEMIR
Red AdVenir
Tele Vida Abundante
Tvida Vision















v
t
e


Additional resources on North American television



North America



List of local television stations in North America
DTV transition
North American TV mini-template





Canada



Canadian networks
List of Canadian television networks
List of Canadian television channels
List of Canadian specialty channels
Local Canadian TV stations
List of United States stations available in Canada
2001 Vancouver TV realignment
2007 Canada broadcast TV realignment





Mexico



Mexican networks
Local Mexican TV stations





United States



American networks
List of American cable and satellite networks
List of American over-the-air networks
Local American TV stations (W)
Local American TV stations (K)
Spanish-language TV networks
1994 United States broadcast TV realignment
2006 United States broadcast TV realignment
List of Canadian television stations available in the United States
Insular Areas TV















v
t
e


Digital television in North America



Terrestrial




Digital broadcasting



ATSC tuners
Digital subchannels
Virtual channels
Distributed transmission system
Datacasting

Guide Plus
National Datacast
UpdateLogic


Metropolitan Television Alliance
Grand Alliance





Digital switchover



All-Channel Receiver Act
SAFER Act
Digital channel election
Set-top boxes
Digital television adapter
U.S. Converter Box Coupon Program

legislation


Analog passthrough
DVD recorders
Digital video recorders





Digital standards



ATSC Standards

ATSC
ATSC-M/H
8VSB
A-VSB
E-VSB
PSIP
PMCP
full list


Standard-definition TV

480i
576i


Enhanced-definition TV

480p
576p


High-definition TV

720p
1080i
1080p


Serial digital interface
Smart antennas

CEA-909







Digital networks



see Template:American broadcast television
Template:Canadian television networks





National deployment



List by country
Canada
Mexico
United States

HDTV
transition
wireless spectrum auction










Cable




Digital cable



Digital-cable-ready TV

QAM tuners


Interactive-digital-cable-ready TV

OpenCable Application Platform


Encryption
Must-carry





Subscription TV



AllVid
CableCARD
Downloadable Conditional Access System
Tru2way








Satellite TV



DVB-S

Dish Network
GlobeCast World TV
Free-to-air receiver
Bell TV/Telus Satellite TV
Dish México


DigiCipher 2

4DTV
Shaw Direct


Digital Satellite Service/DVB-S2

DirecTV







IPTV



AT&T U-verse
Bell Fibe TV
FibreOP
Telus Optik TV





Technical issues



14:9
Active Format Description
Broadcast flag
Channel protection ratios
HDTV blur
Hierarchical modulation
Pirate decryption
Standards conversion
Video on demand















v
t
e


Digital television in North America



Terrestrial




Digital broadcasting



ATSC tuners
Digital subchannels
Virtual channels
Distributed transmission system
Datacasting

Guide Plus
National Datacast
UpdateLogic


Metropolitan Television Alliance
Grand Alliance





Digital switchover



All-Channel Receiver Act
SAFER Act
Digital channel election
Set-top boxes
Digital television adapter
U.S. Converter Box Coupon Program

legislation


Analog passthrough
DVD recorders
Digital video recorders





Digital standards



ATSC Standards

ATSC
ATSC-M/H
8VSB
A-VSB
E-VSB
PSIP
PMCP
full list


Standard-definition TV

480i
576i


Enhanced-definition TV

480p
576p


High-definition TV

720p
1080i
1080p


Serial digital interface
Smart antennas

CEA-909







Digital networks



see Template:American broadcast television
Template:Canadian television networks





National deployment



List by country
Canada
Mexico
United States

HDTV
transition
wireless spectrum auction










Cable




Digital cable



Digital-cable-ready TV

QAM tuners


Interactive-digital-cable-ready TV

OpenCable Application Platform


Encryption
Must-carry





Subscription TV



AllVid
CableCARD
Downloadable Conditional Access System
Tru2way








Satellite TV



DVB-S

Dish Network
GlobeCast World TV
Free-to-air receiver
Bell TV/Telus Satellite TV
Dish México


DigiCipher 2

4DTV
Shaw Direct


Digital Satellite Service/DVB-S2

DirecTV







IPTV



AT&T U-verse
Bell Fibe TV
FibreOP
Telus Optik TV





Technical issues



14:9
Active Format Description
Broadcast flag
Channel protection ratios
HDTV blur
Hierarchical modulation
Pirate decryption
Standards conversion
Video on demand












v
t
e


Tribune Media



Corporate directors



Bruce Karsh (Chairman)
Peter Liguori (President and CEO)
Chandler Bigelow (CFO)





Tribune
Broadcasting
(TV stations by
primary affiliations)




TV networks



Broadcast
Antenna TV
This TV 1
Cable
CLTV
Food Network (30%)
WGN America





CBS



KFSM
WHNT
WREG
WTKR 2
WTTV / WTTK
WTVR





The CW



KDAF
KIAH
KPLR
KRCW
KTLA
KWGN
WCCT
WDCW
WGNT 2
WNOL
WPIX
WSFL





Fox



KCPQ
KDVR / KFCT
KSTU
KSWB
KTVI
KTXL
WDAF
WGHP
WITI
WJW
WPMT
WTIC
WXIN
WXMI





Other



ABC

WGNO
WNEP 2
WQAD


MyNet

KXNW
KZJO
WPHL


NBC

KFOR
WHO


Ind.

WGN-TV
KAUT







TV programs



$100,000 Fortune Hunt
Adventure Inc.
American Idol Rewind
Andromeda
Animal Rescue
Around the World for Free
The Arsenio Hall Show
At the Movies
The Bill Cunningham Show
BeastMaster
Beyond with James Van Praagh
The Bob & Tom Show
Bozo, Gar and Ray: WGN TV Classics
The Bozo Show
The Bozo Super Sunday Show
Bzzz!
The Charles Perez Show
City Guys
The Dennis Miller Show
Dog Tales
Earth: Final Conflict
Family Feud
Final Shot: The Hank Gathers Story
Flipper
Geraldo
Ghostbusters
Hollywood Christmas Parade
Illinois Instant Riches
Independent Network News
Inside the Vault
The Joan Rivers Show
EyeOpener
KTLA Morning News
Malibu, CA
Manhattan
Missing
Monsters
Movie Underground
Mutant X
The Mystery of Al Capone's Vaults
NewsFix
Night Man
On the Spot
Outsiders
Salem
Scalped
Soul Train
Soul Train Music Awards
To Live and Die in L.A.
Tales from the Darkside
Tribune Studios
U.S. Farm Report
Underground
What a Country!
WWE Superstars
WGN Morning News
WGN Sports
Yule Log





Radio



WGN
WMIL-HD3 3





TV prodution



Tribune Studios





Acquisitions



Local TV LLC
Renaissance Broadcasting








Tribune Digital Ventures



Screener

TV by the Numbers







Related articles



The WB (25%, 1995–2006)
Tribune Publishing (1847–2014)
Tribune Media Services (1933–2014)
Chicago Cubs Radio Network (1925 to 2014)
Gracenote (sold 2017)








1 A joint venture between Tribune and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.
2 Owned by Dreamcatcher Broadcasting, LLC, Tribune operates these stations through an SSA.
3 Owned by iHeartMedia, and operated by Tribune.















 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Antenna_TV&oldid=811874600"					
Categories: Television channels and stations established in 2011American television networksClassic television networksTribune Broadcasting2011 establishments in the United StatesHidden categories: Articles containing potentially dated statements from January 2017All articles containing potentially dated statementsArticles containing potentially dated statements from February 2016Official website different in Wikidata and WikipediaArticles with Spanish-language external links 
