ASY TV - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



ASY TV


Launched
July 1, 2015 (2015-07-01)


Owned by
Brandon Bishop


Picture format



1080i (HDTV)
(HD feed downgraded to letterboxed 480i for SDTVs)





Slogan
The Future of Televised Entertainment


Country
United States


Language
English


Broadcast area
Worldwide


Headquarters
Colorado Springs, Colorado


Website
www.asytv.com



Availability



Cable


On select systems


Streaming media


ROKU
Roku


Apple TV
Apple TV


Firestick
Firestick


Chromecast
Chromecast


ASY TV (sounds like Acai TV) is an American television station that is in approximately 140 million homes. The programming on the network caters to edgy, comedic and spooky takes on conventional reality TV programming. Launched by former professional wrestler and promoter Brandon Bishop in 2015, the name of the station comes from his former promotion "Asylum Wrestling" after it's successful stint on Roku Television.
It is currently available on several streaming services including Roku, Apple TV, and others.




Contents


1 History
2 Broadcast

2.1 Original programming


3 See also
4 References
5 External links



History[edit]
ASY TV is an all new original Multi genre' Multi Faceted Television Network based in Colorado, but available to the World. Launched in 2015 in 20 million homes with only eight ASY original programs, the programming has increased to nearly 30 original TV shows and available in nearly every home in the nation and in various markets around the globe.
Broadcast[edit]
Currently the channel streams on ROKU, ASYTV.COM, Apple TV, Chromecast, Android, Firestick, and is in negotiations to expand into other mediums.
Original programming[edit]
ASY TV boasts almost 30, original, independent shows in a number of different genres. Some of the most popular programs are "Go There, Eat That", "Hellscream INC", "Break the Silence", "With Sign in Hand", "The Drink with Aeon Cruz", "Heart of Addiction", "Alone in the Dark" (featuring network owner Brandon Bishop), "Best Day Ever", "Lost in America" and their newest show "Wrestling With Ghosts."
See also[edit]

Vito Thomaselli of The Thomaselli Brothers, narrator for "Wrestling With Ghosts."

References[edit]

External links[edit]

Official website
Wrestling With Ghosts





 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=ASY_TV&oldid=804786614"					
Categories: Television channels and stations established in 2015English-language television stations in the United StatesAmerican television networksHidden categories: Use mdy dates from September 2017Official website not in Wikidata 
