Bravo (U.S. TV network) - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Bravo





Launched
December 1, 1980; 36 years ago


Owned by



NBCUniversal Cable
(NBCUniversal)





Picture format



1080i (HDTV)
(Downgraded to letterboxed 480i for SDTVs)





Country
United States


Language
English


Broadcast area
Nationwide


Headquarters



Comcast Building
New York City, New York





Sister channel(s)



E!
NBC
Oxygen
Universal Kids





Website
www.bravotv.com



Availability



Satellite


DirecTV
237 (HD/SD)


Dish Network



129 (HD/SD)
9449 (HD)





C-Band - H2H/4DTV



AMC 18
Channel 203 (East)/262 (West)





Cable


Available on most other U.S. cable systems
Consult your local cable provider for channel availability


IPTV


Apple TV
tvOS Application


Verizon FiOS



685 (HD)
185 (SD)





AT&T U-verse



1181 (HD)
181 (SD)





Streaming media


Sling TV
Internet Protocol television


PlayStation Vue
Internet Protocol television


DirecTV Now
Internet Protocol television


Bravo is an American cable and satellite television network, launched on December 1, 1980. It is a program service operated by NBCUniversal Cable Entertainment, which is owned by NBCUniversal, a subsidiary of Comcast and headquartered in the Comcast Building in New York City. The channel originally focused on programming related to fine arts and film; it currently broadcasts several reality television series targeted at 25-54 year-old women as well as the LGBT community, along with acquired and original dramas, and mainstream theatrically released feature films.
As of January 2016, approximately 89,824,000 American households (77.169 percent of households with TV) receive Bravo.[1]



Contents


1 History
2 Programming
3 High definition
4 International versions
5 References
6 External links



History[edit]
Bravo originally launched as a commercial-free premium channel on December 1, 1980. It was originally co-owned by Cablevision's Rainbow Media division and Warner-Amex Satellite Entertainment; the channel claimed to be "the first television service dedicated to film and the performing arts".[2][3][4] The channel originally broadcast its programming two days a week and—like Bravo's former sister network Nickelodeon, which shared its channel space with Alpha Repertory Television Service—shared its channel space with the adult-oriented pay channel Escapade, which featured softcore pornographic films.[5] In 1981, Bravo was available to 48,000 subscribers throughout the United States; this total increased four years later to around 350,000 subscribers.[6] A 1985 profile of Bravo in The New York Times observed that most of its programming consisted of international, classic, and independent film. Celebrities such as E. G. Marshall and Roberta Peters provided opening and closing commentary to the films broadcast on the channel.[6]
Performing arts programs seen on Bravo included the show Jazz Counterpoint.[6] During the mid-1980s, Bravo converted from a premium service into a basic cable channel, although it remained a commercial-free service.[7] Bravo signed an underwriting deal with Texaco in 1992 and within a month broadcast the first Texaco Showcase production, a stage adaptation of Romeo and Juliet.[8] By the mid-1990s, Bravo began to incorporate more PBS-style underwriting sponsorships, and then began accepting traditional commercial advertising by 1998.[5]
In the Encyclopedia of Television, Megan Mullen perceived certain Bravo programs as "considered too risky or eclectic for mainstream channels". Those programs were Karaoke and Cold Lazarus, the final serials by British playwright Dennis Potter shown by Bravo in June 1997, and Michael Moore's documentary series The Awful Truth from 1999.[8]
In 1999, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer acquired a 20% stake in the channel, which it subsequently sold back to Rainbow Media in 2001. NBC bought the network in 2002 for $1.25 billion; it had owned a stake in the channel and its sister networks for several years up to that point.[9] NBC's then-parent company, General Electric, merged the network and its other broadcast and cable properties with Vivendi Universal Entertainment in May 2004 to form NBC Universal.
In the early 2000s, Bravo switched its format from focusing on performing arts, drama, and independent film to being focused on pop culture such as reality shows, fashion and makeover shows, and celebrities. Bravo's "makeover" occurred in 2003 with the reality series Queer Eye for the Straight Guy, which garnered 3.5 million viewers.[3] Entertainment Weekly put "Bravo reality shows" on its end-of-the-decade, "best-of" list, saying, "From Queer Eye for the Straight Guy's Fab Five to Project Runway's fierce fashionistas to the kvetching, perma-tanned Real Housewives franchise, Bravo's quirky reality programming mixes high culture and low scruples to create deliciously addictive television."[10]
In more recent years, Bravo has put the spotlight on cultural, regional and relationship diversities with a few of its reality series, such as: Million Dollar Listing, Shahs of Sunset, Married to Medicine, Newlyweds the First Year, Southern Charm and "Real Housewives". Bravo Media released its first ever scripted series, Girlfriends' Guide to Divorce, in the later half of 2014, which earned impressive ratings, causing the green light for a second season.
A study released in May 2008 ranked Bravo as the most recognizable brand among gay consumers.[11] Bravo's age demographic is people 18-54, according to the Cable Television Advertising Bureau's cable television profiles.[2]
On February 7, 2017, coinciding with the premiere of new original series Imposters, Bravo updated its imaging with a refresh to its speech bubble-inspired logo, with the letters now all rendered in lowercase (replacing the wordmark text based on the logos used by the channel between 1994 and 2005), and a neutralized imaging to attract more male viewers. The "...by Bravo" marketing tag will also be phased out from general use.[12]
Programming[edit]
Main article: List of programs broadcast by Bravo
Bravo's programming schedule primarily includes originally produced programming, particularly reality content, most popularly The Real Housewives and Inside the Actors Studio, as well as the Top Chef, Flipping Out, and Married to Medicine franchises. The channel also airs reruns of series from parent network NBC and occasionally other NBCUniversal-owned networks, off-network series, including those from NBCUniversal Television Distribution, and feature films, primarily from the Universal Pictures catalog. Bravo utilizes block programming for both new shows and existing ones such as its "Fashion By Bravo" block.[13]
Following its acquisition by NBC, Bravo began to supplement NBC Sports coverage of the Olympic Games, airing live events during the overnight and morning hours during the 2004 Summer Olympics; this coverage continued with the 2006 Winter Olympics. The channel carried no coverage during the 2008 games, as NBCUniversal had acquired Oxygen, allowing Bravo to continue to carry its regular programming schedule during NBC coverage of the Games. In 2012, the network served as the near-exclusive home for the Games's tennis tournament at Wimbledon, with up to 56 hours of coverage except for the men's and women's singles finals, which aired on NBC.[14] During the 2016 Rio Olympics, Bravo served as the exclusive home of the entire tennis tournament.[citation needed]
High definition[edit]
Bravo began broadcasting in the 1080i high definition format in 2007. The format is available on all major cable and satellite providers.
Before Bravo broadcast in HD, the current Universal HD launched as Bravo HD+ in 2003. It had a completely different schedule than the main Bravo schedule, acting as a "demo channel" with only programs made in the HD format.[citation needed]
International versions[edit]
An Australian channel called Arena rebranded its on-air presentation in 2008 to align with Bravo as a result of an agreement with Bravo Media.[15] Arena uses the now-former Bravo slogan "Watch What Happens" and has access to Bravo-produced programming.[16]
A Canadian version of Bravo was launched in 1995 by CHUM Limited. The channel originally aired much of the same genres of programming aired by its American counterpart. However, since the American Bravo's shift towards reality programming, the Canadian Bravo channel began airing more dramas, and with its adoption of a new logo in 2012 with little semblance to the American Bravo's current branding, there is now essentially no connection between the two channels other than a shared name. The channel still airs the few arts-related series aired by the American Bravo (such as Inside the Actors Studio and Work of Art), but due to Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) regulations which require the channel to still air programming related to arts, Bravo Canada does not air the vast majority of the U.S. channel's reality series – most of them have been picked up by Canadian specialty channels such as Slice and HGTV Canada. Since then, it is currently unknown if the Canadian Bravo will be given a new name.
In the United Kingdom, a television channel called Bravo launched in 1985 independently of the U.S. service. The British channel, which shut down on January 1, 2011, focused on men's programming for most of its existence, and never carried an arts or pop-culture format, nor much, if any, of the U.S. channel's programming.
MediaWorks New Zealand announced that it would close the youth-oriented free to air channel Four in July 2016 and replace it with Bravo as part of a deal with NBC Universal.[17]
References[edit]


^ "Cable Network Coverage Area Household Universe Estimates: January 2016". Broadcasting & Cable. 
^ a b TimeWarner Media Sales: Bravo - CableMediaSales.com Archived May 2, 2008, at the Wayback Machine. Retrieved September 1, 2008.
^ a b "A Tale of Two Networks." Entertainment Weekly #1001, July 11, 2008, pg. 42.
^ "About Bravo". Bravo (U.S. TV channel). Archived from the original on January 4, 2010. Retrieved July 14, 2010. 
^ a b Becker, Anne (October 1, 2006). "Tracking Bravo's Rise". Broadcasting & Cable. Retrieved July 14, 2010. 
^ a b c Schneider, Steve (December 15, 1985). "Cable TV Notes; Bravo Thrives on Culture". The New York Times. Retrieved July 14, 2010. 
^ "Cable Networks". Museum of Broadcast Communications. Retrieved July 14, 2010. 
^ a b Mullen, Megan (2004) [1997]. "Bravo (U.S. cable network)". In Newcomb, Horace. Encyclopedia of Television. 1 (2nd ed.). Chicago, Illinois, United States: Fitzroy Dearborn Publishers. pp. 308–310. ISBN 1-57958-411-X. 
^ Romano, Allison. "NBC Puts Its Stamp on Bravo." Broadcasting and Cable. February 17, 2003.
^ Geier, Thom; et al. "The 100 Greatest Movies, TV Shows, Albums, Books, Characters, Scenes, Episodes, Songs, Dresses, Music Videos, And Trends That Entertained Us Over The Past 10 Years". Entertainment Weekly (1079/1080): 74–84. 
^ "Bravo tops survey of gay-friendly companies." Reuters' May 13, 2008.
^ Wagmeister, Elizabeth (6 February 2017). "Bravo Unveils New On-Air Look, Logo in Brand Refresh (EXCLUSIVE)". 
^ Ritchie, Kevin (January 11, 2012). "Bravo names Bianchi VP, program planning and acquisitions". Brunico Communications. Retrieved June 22, 2013. 
^ "NBC Lays Out Olympic Schedule". Broadcasting Cable. Retrieved May 20, 2012. 
^ "Australia's Foxtel has license to deal". The Hollywood Reporter. Retrieved 2017-08-11. 
^ "A New Arena". Archived from the original on 2008-06-25. 
^ Mediaworks dumps FOUR for new reality channel Bravo


External links[edit]

Official website
Bravo Now







v
t
e


NBCUniversal




A subsidiary of Comcast



Corporate
officials




Board of Directors



Steve Burke (CEO)
Brian L. Roberts
Jeffrey R. Immelt
Keith Sherin





Executives



Steve Capus
Dick Ebersol
Robert Greenblatt
Bonnie Hammer
Ted Harbert
Ronald Meyer








Universal Studios



Amblin Partners[nu 1]
Back Lot Music
Carnival Films
Chiller Films
DreamWorks Animation

DreamWorks Classics

Big Idea Entertainment
Bullwinkle StudiosJV
Harvey Entertainment


DreamWorks Channel
Oriental DreamWorks[nu 2]
DreamWorks New Media

AwesomenessTV[nu 3]

Big Frame






Fandango (70%)
Focus Features

Gramercy Pictures


Illumination Entertainment

Illumination Mac Guff


NBCUniversal Entertainment Japan
United International Pictures[nu 4]
Universal Animation Studios
Universal Playback
Universal Pictures Home Entertainment
Working Title Films





Universal Parks
& Resorts




United States



Universal Studios Hollywood

CityWalk


Universal Orlando Resort

Universal Studios Florida
Islands of Adventure
CityWalk







International



Universal Studios Japan
Universal Studios Singapore
Universal Studios Beijing








NBCU Cable
Entertainment



Universal Cable Productions
Craftsy (major stake)
Networks

Chiller
Syfy
USA Network


Lifestyle Group

Bravo
E!
Oxygen
Universal Kids







NBCU Digital



Hulu[nu 5]
Movieclips
Seeso





NBCU Telemundo
Enterprises



NBC Universo
Telemundo

Puerto Rico Studios
Telemundo TV Studios


Telemundo Deportesw/NBC Sports Group





NBC Sports Group







NBC Sports Ventures

Alli


Golf Channel
NBC Sports Digital

GolfNow


NBC Sports
NBCSN
Olympic Channel
part owner

MLB Network
NHL Network







NBC Sports
Regional Networks



Bay Area (45%)
Boston
California
Chicago (20%)
Northwest
Philadelphia
Washington
SNY (8%)








NBCUniversal
News Group







NBC News
NBCNews.com
The Weather Channel[nu 6]
MSNBC
Peacock Productions





CNBC global channels



CNBC
CNBC Africa (licensee)
CNBC Asia
CNBC Europe
CNBC Latin America
CNBC World





CNBC Europe branches



Class CNBC (20%)
CNBC Africa (licensee)
CNBC Arabiya
CNBC-e
CNBC Nordic





CNBC Asia branches



CNBC-TV18
CNBC Australia
CNBC Awaaz
CNBC Hong Kong
CNBC Pakistan
CNBC Singapore
Nikkei CNBC
SBS-CNBC








NBCUniversal
International
Networks



13th Street Universal

Australia
Benelux
France
Germany
Spain


Bravo New Zealand
Euronews[nu 7]
Syfy Universal

Asia
Australia
Benelux
France
Germany
Italy[nu 8]
Latin America
Poland
Portugal
Romania
Russia
Serbia
Slovenia
Spain
United Kingdom


Diva Universal

Asia
Italy
Romania


Movies 24
Studio Universal

Latin America


Universal Channel

Asia
Australia
Germany
Greece
Japan
Poland
Turkey
United Kingdom


Style Network

Australia


E!

Asia
Australia
Europe







NBC Entertainment



NBC
DreamWorks Animation Television
Stamford Media Center
Universal Television





NBC Broadcasting







Affiliate Relations
NBCUniversal Television Distribution





NBCU Owned
TV Stations
O&Os




NBC Owned
TV Stations



KNBC
KNSD
KNTV
KXAS-TV
WBTS-LD
WCAU
WMAQ-TV
WNBC
WRC-TV
WTVJ
WVIT Other properties:
Cozi TV

K15CU-D


LXTV
New England Cable News





Telemundo
Station Group



KBLR
KDEN-TV
KEJT-LP
KHRR
KNSD-DT20
KNSO[nu 9]
KSTS
KTAZ
KTLM
KTMD
KVDA
KVEA
KXTX-TV
WKAQ-TV
WNEU
WNJU
WSCV
WSNS-TV
WWSI Other properties:
TeleXitos











Other assets:



EMKA, Ltd.
International Media Distribution
PictureBox Films





Former/Defunct
properties
and predecessors:



Castle Films
Chapman Entertainment
CIC Video
Cloo
Comcast Network
Esquire Network
FilmDistrict
Filmation
G4
Good Machine
Gramercy Pictures
Harvey Films/Harvey Comics
ITC Entertainment
Interscope Communications
Miss Universe[nu 10]
Multimedia Entertainment
MCA Inc.
October Films
Kitty Films
Pacific Data Images
PolyGram Filmed Entertainment
Propaganda Films
Seagram Company Ltd.
Shift
Total Television
United Productions of America
Universal HD









^ Co-owned with The Amblin Group, Participant Media, Reliance Entertainment, Entertainment One and Alibaba Pictures.
^ Co-owned with China Media Capital, Shanghai Media Group and Shanghai Alliance Investment.
^ Co-owned with Hearst Communications and Verizon Communications.
^ 50%, with Viacom's Paramount Pictures.
^ Co-owned with 21st Century Fox, The Walt Disney Company and Time Warner. NBCUniversal has no involvement with Hulu operations.
^ Co-owned with The Blackstone Group and Bain Capital.
^ Co-owned with Media Globe Networks and European public broadcasters.
^ Co-owned with Mediaset.
^ The station is owned by NBCUniversal, but is controlled by Serestar Communications.
^ Co-owned with The Trump Organization before September 2015 sale to WMG/IMG.













v
t
e


NBC Sports Group



Current programs




Original



Fight Night 36
Football Night in America
Fore Inventors Only
Golf Central
Indy Car 36
Match of the Day
NHL 36
NBC SportsTalk
NFL Turning Point
NHL Live
NHL Overtime
Pro Football Talk
Sports Illustrated
Sunday Sports Report





Sports



College Football on NBC
College Hockey on NBC
Dew Action Sports Tour
Fight Night

Premier Boxing Champions


Formula One on NBC
IndyCar Series on NBC
Lucas Oil AMA Pro Motocross
NASCAR on NBC
Golf Channel on NBC
NFL on NBC

Football Night in America
NBC Sunday Night Football


NHL on NBC
Notre Dame Football on NBC
Olympics on NBC
Premier League
Red Bull Global Rallycross
USA Sevens
USA Rugby League
Tennis on NBC
Thoroughbred Racing on NBC
Tour de France





Other



Men in Blazers
The Dan Patrick Show








National channels



Golf Channel
NBCSN
NBC Sports Radio
Olympic Channel
minority stake

MLB Network
NHL Network
Universal Sports (defunct)







NBC Sports Regional Networks



Bay Area (45%)
Boston
California
Chicago (20%)
Northwest
Philadelphia
Washington
SNY (8%)





Occasional programming



NBC Olympics
NBC Sports
NBC-Telemundo Deportes





Occasional broadcasts



NBC
Bravo
CNBC
MSNBC
USA Network
(Spanish-language)

NBC Universo
Telemundo







Other properties



Alli Sports
NBC Sports Digital

GolfNow
NBC Sports Gold
NBC Sports Live Extra
Rotoworld Fantasy Sports
profootballtalk.com


Xfinity Live!





Former programs



AFL on NBC
Baseball Night in America
Bowling on NBC
CFL on NBC
College Basketball on NBC
Gillette Cavalcade of Sports
Hambletonian
The 'Lights
MLB Game of the Week
MLB on NBC
Major League Baseball: An Inside Look
MLS on NBC
NBA on NBC
NBA Showtime
NBC College Football Game of the Week
Sportsworld






Parent: NBCUniversal










v
t
e


Defunct premium television services in the United States



Premium services



AMC1
Bravo1
Channel 100
Disney Channel1
Front Row (TV channel)
Festival
Galavisión1
Home Theater Network
Spotlight
Starion Premiere Cinema
Sundance Channel1


Star Channel2
Take Two (TV channel)





Adult premium



American Exxxtasy
Escapade (TV channel)
Uptown (TV channel)





Pay-per-view



Action Pay-Per-View
Cable Video Store
Drive-In Cinema
Guest Cinema
The HiLife Channel
Rendezvous (TV channel)
Request TV
Spectradyne





Sports



ESPN GamePlan
ESPN Full Court
Mega March Madness
NASCAR Hot Pass
PASS Sports





Subscription TV



Hawkvision
In-Home Theatre
MovieBeam
ONTV
Phonevision
Preview
PRISM
SCORE
SelecTV
Spectrum
Sportsvision
SuperTV
Tele1st
Telemeter
VEU
Wometco Home Theater
Z Channel






1 Indicates the channel is still in existence, but currently operates as a basic cable channel.
2 Star Channel was part of Warner Communications' QUBE interactive cable service, and was the precursor to present-day The Movie Channel.








 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Bravo_(U.S._TV_network)&oldid=810588483"					
Categories: NBCUniversal networksEnglish-language television stations in the United StatesTelevision channels and stations established in 1980American television networksHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback linksAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from August 2017 
