Country Star TV - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search








This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages)







This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (August 2013) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)









This article is an orphan, as no other articles link to it. Please introduce links to this page from related articles; try the Find link tool for suggestions. (June 2013)





(Learn how and when to remove this template message)



Country Star TV is a US cable television and digital broadcast television channel, dedicated to country music not frequently featured on other country music television channels. The network launched in limited markets in November 2012 with an official national launch on July 4, 2013, which is also Independence Day in the USA. According to Network officials, as of July 4 the distribution of Country Star TV is set at 29 million households making its distribution about half of rival Country Music Television (CMT).
While Country Star TV features popular country artists like Taylor Swift, Dolly Parton, Montgomery Gentry and Rascal Flatts it is dedicated to featuring up and coming artists like Joey + Rory, Sean Patrick McGraw, and Johnny T, and giving equal airtime to new and discovered talent, including those currently only performing at Nashville clubs like Bluebird Cafe and bars and on web sites.
Country Star TV's programming consists largely of music videos and live performances with interstitial segments featuring on-air hosts.
The Network is based in Brentwood, Tennessee, a suburb of Nashville, Tennessee and home of numerous country stars including Garth Brooks, Trace Adkins, Carrie Underwood and Hillary Scott of Lady Antebellum as well as many others.[1]
The first music video to air on Country Star TV was Willie Nelson and Toby Keith performing "Beer for My Horses". The first video to air on July 4, 2013 was announced as Brooks and Dunn music video "Only in America".
References[edit]



^ "Nashville And Brentwood TN Celebrity Homes Of The Stars - The Fun Times Guide to Brentwood, TN". Brentwood.thefuntimesguide.com. 1999-02-22. Retrieved 2013-08-25. 



External links[edit]

https://web.archive.org/web/20140103022217/http://countrystarstv.com/





 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Country_Star_TV&oldid=796184119"					
Categories: American television networksHidden categories: Articles needing additional references from August 2013All articles needing additional referencesOrphaned articles from June 2013All orphaned articles 
