CroatianTV-America - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search







This article is an orphan, as no other articles link to it. Please introduce links to this page from related articles; try the Find link tool for suggestions. (December 2012)




CroatianTV-America, Inc.


Type

Private company


Industry
Broadcasting, Media, PayTV


Founded
2005


Headquarters
San Diego, California


Products
Ethnic broadcasting, Marketing, Advertising


Owner
EURO-World Network


Website
CroatianTV-America


CroatianTV-America, Inc. is a wholly owned subsidiary of EURO-World Network Inc.; the Broadcaster's representative for North America and South America; responsible for the overall Marketing and Distribution Strategy of the media offering. The company broadcasts Croatian radio and television programming to the Croatian communities in North America (Canada and the United States).
CroatianTV-America has launched three (3) Croatian television channels and three (3) Croatian radio channels and plans on launching others.



Contents


1 Television Channels
2 Radio Channels
3 Availability
4 External links
5 Other links



Television Channels[edit]

HRT - Croatian Television (Picture of Croatia)
NOVA - NOVA World
RTL - RTL Televizija
CMC - Croatian Music Channel

Radio Channels[edit]

HRT - Croatian Radio (Voice of Croatia)
Narodni - Narodni Radio
MIR - Radio MIR

Availability[edit]
The CroatianTV-America programming package is available in North America on the Galaxy-19 (DTH) Direct-to-home satellite platform and/or on the NexTV-America Internet Television platform. CroatianTV-America intends to be available on some of the major cable networks in the US and Canada in 2012.
External links[edit]

NEXTV-America
NEXTV-Canada

Other links[edit]

STN
Intelsat
Irdeto
Ethnic Channels Group
Croatian Radio Television
NOVA TV
RTL Televizija
Croatian Music Channel





This article about a television station is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.


v
t
e









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=CroatianTV-America&oldid=713081449"					
Categories: American television networksTelevision station stubsHidden categories: Orphaned articles from December 2012All orphaned articlesPages using infobox company with unsupported parametersAll stub articles 
