EWTN - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

This article is about the television network. For its sister radio network, see WEWN.


EWTN





Launched
15 August 1981; 36 years ago (1981-08-15)


Owned by
Eternal Word Television Network Inc.


Picture format
480i (SDTV)16:9/4:3
1080i (HDTV)


Slogan
The Global Catholic Network
Live Truth. Live Catholic.


Country
United States
Canada


Language
English


Broadcast area
Nationwide


Headquarters
Irondale, Alabama


Website
EWTN.com



Availability



Terrestrial


WEWN (Eternal Word Radio Network)
Shortwave radio frequencies
AM/FM affiliates


Satellite


DirecTV (US)
Channel 370


Dish Network (US)
Channel 261


Tata Sky (India)
Channel 559


Optus D2 (152°E)
12519 MHz V 22500[1]


AsiaSat 5 (100.5°E)
3700 MHz V 30000


Intelsat 19 (166°E)
3940 MHz H 27690[1]


Intelsat 20 (68.5°E)
4064 MHz H 19850[2]


Sky Direct (Philippines)
Channel 23


Cignal Digital TV (Philippines)
Channel 181


Cable


Sky Italia
Channel 965


Sky UK
Channel 589


First Media (ID)
Channel 29[3]


BiG TV (ID)
Channel 617


Sky Cable / Destiny Cable (Philippines)
Channel 76


Verizon Fios (US)
Channel 285


Xfinity (US)
Channel 42 (SD)
Channel 291 (SD)
Channel 1318 (HD)


CableLink TV (Philippines)
Channel 75


Satellite radio


Sirius Satellite Radio
Channel 130


Streaming media


Digital media receiver
Roku


The Eternal Word Television Network, more commonly known by its initialism EWTN, is an American television network which presents around-the-clock Catholic-themed programming. It was founded by Mother Angelica, PCPA, in 1980 and began broadcasting on August 15, 1981, from a garage studio at the Our Lady of the Angels Monastery in Irondale, Alabama, which Mother Angelica founded in 1962.[4] She hosted her own show, Mother Angelica Live, until suffering a major stroke and other health issues in September 2001.[5] Repeats now air as either the Best of Mother Angelica Live or Mother Angelica Live Classics. From then until her death on Easter Sunday of 2016, she led a cloistered life at the Shrine of the Most Blessed Sacrament in Hanceville, Alabama.
The network, through diocesan television channels in other Catholic countries, advertises itself as the EWTN: The Global Catholic Network. Regular programs include a daily Holy Mass and sometimes Tridentine Mass format, the traditional Stations of the Cross, a taped daily recitation of the Rosary, and daily and weekly news, discussion, and Catechetical programs for both adults and children. Christmas and Easter programming; the installation Masses of bishops and cardinals; coverage of World Youth Days; and papal visits, deaths, funerals, conclaves, and elections are also presented. EWTN also has a presence on satellite[6] and shortwave radio.[7] Spanish language broadcasts are available on all platforms.[8] On December 8, 2009, EWTN began broadcasting in high-definition.[9]
The network's current chairman of the board and chief executive officer is Michael P. Warsaw.[10] While the network has trustees, it does not have shareholders or owners. A majority of the network's funding is from viewer donations to which it advertises 100% viewer supported, which keeps it from advertising secular or non-Catholic programming. Its traditional plea for donations is "Keep us between your gas and electric bill".[11][note 1]
The EWTN network also contributes in the publication of the National Catholic Register newspaper, which was acquired in January 2011, and the Catholic News Agency.[12] The network maintains a web presence through its primary website, EWTN.com, and it also has a dedicated commerce site, EWTNReligiousCatalogue.com.[13]
As of 2017, it is led by Michael Warsaw, who was named a consultor to the Vatican's Secretariat for Communications.[14]



Contents


1 Development
2 Radio
3 Newspapers
4 News coverage
5 History of programming
6 Criticism
7 Papal Pro Ecclesia et Pontifice Award
8 Viewership statistics
9 List of programs
10 Branding

10.1 Network slogans


11 Logos
12 List of EWTN Broadcast Affiliates
13 See also
14 Notes
15 References
16 External links



Development[edit]




EWTN's main studio in Irondale, Alabama


Mother Angelica made her profession of vows in 1953. In 1962, she established the Our Lady of the Angels monastery. During the 1970s, she was an in-demand lecturer and produced educational pamphlets and audio and video tapes. She had been a guest on local station WBMG (currently WIAT, Channel 42), and on shows on the Christian Broadcasting Network and the Trinity Broadcasting Network. After she gave an interview on then-Christian station WCFC (Channel 38) in Chicago, she decided she wanted her own network. "I walked in, and it was just a little studio, and I remember standing in the doorway and thinking, 'It doesn't take much to reach the masses'. I just stood there and said to the Lord, 'Lord, I've got to have one of these'".[15]
Mother Angelica purchased satellite space and EWTN began broadcasting on August 15, 1981, with four hours of daily programming, which included her own show, Mother Angelica Live (aired bi-weekly), a Sunday Mass, and reruns of older Catholic programs such as Archbishop Fulton J. Sheen's Life Is Worth Living. The remainder of the time was filled with shows produced by dioceses across the country, shows from Protestant sources which Mother Angelica determined were in concert with Catholic teachings, and children's shows such as Joy Junction and The Sunshine Factory. About one-third of programming time consisted of secular content, such as re-runs of The Bill Cosby Show, public domain films, and cooking and western-themed shows. EWTN eventually increased its broadcast schedule to six hours per day and then to eight hours per day by 1986. Secular content was gradually reduced from 1986 to 1988, and satellite distribution was expanded late in 1987, after which EWTN acquired a far more desirable satellite channel and began broadcasting around the clock. At this point, EWTN began broadcasting the praying of the rosary on a daily basis and added a number of educational shows. In-house production of original programming gradually increased. The Mass became televised daily in 1991 from a chapel on the monastery grounds. Most shows from non-Catholic sources were eliminated and a more theological image gradually developed.
Radio[edit]
Main article: WEWN
In 1992, EWTN established the largest privately owned shortwave radio station, WEWN, in the Birmingham area.[citation needed]
In 1996, Mother Angelica announced that EWTN would make its radio signal available via satellite to AM and FM stations throughout the country free of charge.[16]
In 1999, programs included Mother Angelica Live and "Life Is Worth Living" with Archbishop Fulton J. Sheen. WGSN in North Myrtle Beach, South Carolina was an affiliate.[17] Current radio programs include Open Line, in which callers can get answers about the Catholic Faith.
In 2004, EWTN announced an agreement with Sirius Satellite Radio which has since merged with XM Radio to become Sirius XM Radio. EWTN broadcasts on Channel 130 on SiriusXM. [18]
As of 2016, EWTN radio has over 350 affiliate stations throughout the US and over 500 stations worldwide.[19]
Newspapers[edit]
Main article: National Catholic Register
In January 2011, EWTN acquired the National Catholic Register, a newspaper founded in Denver, Colorado, in 1924 as a periodical for local Catholics and which became a national publication three years later. EWTN officially assumed total control on February 1.[12]
News coverage[edit]






This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (January 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)



The EWTN news department produces a daily news service for television and radio, featuring news sources including Vatican Radio. They also produce The World Over Live, which covers relevant current events. It is hosted by journalist and author Raymond Arroyo, who is also EWTN's news director. The program is conservative in its political orientation and generally conservative in its religious orientation. Notable guests have included Robert Rector of the Heritage Foundation, author and activist George Weigel, political commentator Laura Ingraham, conservative political commentator Pat Buchanan, and the late columnist and commentator Robert Novak, a Jewish convert to Catholicism.
History of programming[edit]
In its early history, EWTN broadcast Catholic-produced programming from a wide variety of Catholic sources. This ranged from Catholic charismatic programming such as Fr. Michael Manning, to shows focusing on social reform and social justice, such as Christopher Closeup, to doctrinal teaching shows hosted by various clergy.
In the early 1990s, EWTN began producing more of its own shows. This marked a distinctive conservative shift in the network's overall orientation, with programs featuring topics on social reform and justice gradually being phased out and replaced with general doctrinal teaching and discussion programs. This shift was apparent in the daily televised Masses, which, in 1992, began incorporating Latin into the liturgy and gradually no longer featured contemporary music. Some non-televised Masses are in all English and some have more contemporary music. On Christmas Eve 1993, Mother Angelica and the nuns of her order reverted to traditional habits. From 1992 on, the Latin portions of the Mass included the Gloria, introduction of the Gospel readings, the Sanctus, and the rest of the mass after the Great Amen, beginning with the Lord's Prayer.
Among its notable weekly programs are The Journey Home and Life on the Rock. The Journey Home, hosted by Marcus Grodi, presents converts to the Catholic faith. Grodi himself is a former Presbyterian minister who converted to Catholicism in 1992.[20] Although most guests are former Protestants, former adherents of non-Christian faiths (such as Judaism) and former atheists have occasionally appeared. Life on the Rock is hosted by Fr. Mark Mary, MFVA and Doug Barry.
The HD feed first became available to Comcast customers in Richmond, VA and vicinity on May 11, 2010.[21]
In October 2011, EWTN became available through the Roku streaming player. The player provides six live channels of EWTN for free (including English, Spanish and German languages), allowing users to watch the channel on their television. In addition, select EWTN programs can be viewed as a video on demand option as well as a live feed of EWTN Radio is available.[22]
Often, EWTN airs special programming: holiday-specific programs as well as coverage the deaths of popes; papal conclaves, elections, inaugurations and visits; Easter, Christmas Eve and Christmas Day Masses; the installations of bishops, archbishops, and cardinals; and World Youth Day.
Criticism[edit]






This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (January 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)



In a 1993 episode of Mother Angelica Live, Mother Angelica harshly criticized a mimed re-enactment of the Stations of the Cross at the World Youth Day in Denver, Colorado, which was attended by Pope John Paul II. Mother Angelica was particularly upset that a woman was playing Jesus. Archbishop Rembert Weakland of the Archdiocese of Milwaukee called Mother Angelica's comments "...one of the most disgraceful, un-Christian, offensive, and divisive diatribes I have ever heard".[23] Mother Angelica responded by saying, "He didn't think a woman playing Jesus was offensive? He can go put his head in the back toilet as far as I am concerned!"[23]
In 1997, Mother Angelica publicly criticized Cardinal Roger Mahony, then the archbishop of the Archdiocese of Los Angeles, for his pastoral letter on the Eucharist called "Gather Faithfully Together: A Guide for Sunday Mass", which she perceived had a lack of emphasis on transubstantiation:[24] "I'm afraid my obedience in that diocese would be absolutely zero. And I hope everybody else's in that diocese is zero".[25] Cardinal Mahony regarded her comments as accusing him of heresy.[26] Mother Angelica later issued a conditional apology for her comments.
In 1999, Bishop David Foley of the diocese of Birmingham, Alabama issued a decree prohibiting priests in his diocese from celebrating Mass ad orientem (which literally means "to the east", but in this case means with the priest and the people facing to the tabernacle so that the people do not view the face of the priest) under most circumstances.[27] Although the decree did not specifically mention EWTN, the wording of the decree, which stated that "...any Mass that is or will be televised for broadcast or videotaped for public dissemination", supporters and critics alike generally agreed that the decree was written with EWTN specifically in mind. Bishop Foley stated that the practice of having the priest's back to the people "amounts to making a political statement and is dividing the people."[27]
Papal Pro Ecclesia et Pontifice Award[edit]
In 2000, Archbishop Roberto González Nieves of San Juan, Puerto Rico performed an apostolic visitation of EWTN. There is some dispute whether the visitation was valid since the United States is not under the jurisdiction of Puerto Rico. Nieves determined that there were three distinct problems: the actual ownership of the network, the monastery's right to give property to EWTN, and, since she had never been elected, the legitimacy of Mother Angelica's authority.[28]
Subsequently the matter was resolved when, in 2009, EWTN was given the Pro Ecclesia et Pontifice directly by the Holy See. This award was given to Mother Angelica and the EWTN leadership as an expression of gratitude for their service to the Church.[29]
Viewership statistics[edit]
EWTN is the largest religious media network in the world. As of 2015, its programming reached more than 250 million homes in 140 countries and territories.[30] The organization had annual revenues of $52,640,778 in 2015.[31]
List of programs[edit]


EWTN News Nightly, on Mondays through Fridays
The Journey Home - Marcus Grodi, on Mondays
Threshold of Hope - Fr. Mitch Pacwa S.J., on Tuesdays
EWTN Live - Fr. Mitch Pacwa, S.J., on Wednesdays
The World Over Live - Raymond Arroyo, on Thursdays
Life on the Rock with Fr. Mark Mary and Doug Barry, on Fridays
The Daily Mass, on daily mornings
Sunday Mass, on Sunday mornings
Benedictions and Devotions, on Sundays
The Holy Rosary with Mother Angelica
The Holy Rosary in the Holy Land
At Home with Jim and Joy - Jim and Joy Pinto
Web of Faith - Fr. John Trigilio & Fr. Robert Levis,
Sunday Night Prime with Fr. Andrew Apostoli, CSSR, on Sunday Nights
EWTN Bookmark - with Doug Keck
Mother Angelica Live Classics
EWTN Religious Catalogue
Angel Force - With the LaHood Family
The Knights of St. Michael- With the LaHood family.
My Little Angels
We Are Catholic
My Catholic Family
The Carpenter's Shop
Adventures in Odyssey
The Joy of Music, starring concert organist Diane Bish
Pope Fiction - Patrick Madrid
Christ in the City with Fr. George Rutler
Pequeño Jesús
Now That We Are Catholic
Jesus Christ - True God/True Man - Raymond D'Souza
G. K. Chesterton: Apostle of Common Sense - Dale Ahlquist
Household of Faith - Kristine Franklin & Rosalind Moss
The Abundant Life - Johnette Benkovic
Does The Church Still Teach This? - Fr. Shannon Collins FME
Catholics Coming Home - Msgr. Frank E. Bognanno
Defending Life - Fr. Frank Pavone and Janet Morana
Forgotten Heritage - with Fr. Owen Gorman and Fr. John Hogan
Catholicism on Campus - with Msgr. Stuart Swetland
Finding God Through Faith and Reason - with Fr. Robert Spitzer, S.J., PhD
The Pure Life - with Jason and Crystallina Evert
Crash Course in Catholicism - with Fr. John Trigilio and Fr. Ken Brighenti
The Quest for Shakespeare - Joseph Pearce
Reasons For Our Hope - Rosalind Moss
Council of Faith: The Documents of Vatican II - Fr. John Trigilio
Council of Faith: The Post-Consiliar Documents - Fr. John Trigilio
Super Saints - hosted by Bob and Penny Lord[32]
The Friar
Genesis to Jesus - with Scott Hahn and Rob Corzine


Branding[edit]
EWTN's logo has incorporated a globe in some form since the network's launch in 1981.
In 1995, the logo was changed to "EWTN International Catholic Network" which later becomes "EWTN Global Catholic Network" in 1996
In 1996, the Ident was slightly redesigned in gold with a 4-color background of Gold, White, Purple and Green. The 2001 main Ident was updated with uppercase "EWTN" typeface in gold. The globe was also updated to provide a more mature look.
Images of several stained glass windows (taken from the Shrine of the Most Blessed Sacrament in Hanceville, AL) have been used with the 2001 EWTN Ident.
In the original version of this 2001 logo, we see a spinning globe, inside of which is a shining monstrance. Several surrounding panels have video clips of the rosary, saints, Pope John Paul II, Franciscan Sisters, the Shrine of the Most Blessed Sacrament and the late Mother Angelica. The camera zooms out to shining monstrance, and then we see another globe inside the satellite dish and dome. The words "EWTN" in uppercase letters spinning around and then the globe changes to gold as the previous logo zooms in and later dissolve. And again, we see the words "EWTN" in uppercase letters circling and straighten itself with the golden EWTN globe. All of these were accompanied by a majestic fanfare starting off with a choir singing "Pange Lingua Gloriosi".

In 1991, EWTN celebrating its 10th anniversary with a new slogan "Turn to Us" featuring the classic EWTN logo with a golden box and a majestic orchestra theme
The new EWTN logo was first introduced in late fall of 2015 and later made its on-screen EWTN logo in 2016.
Several video backgrounds have used the current EWTN ident with the slogan "Live truth. Live catholic"
Network slogans[edit]


Built for you (1981-1983)
Catholic Cable Network (1983-1995)
International Catholic Network (1995)
Count on Us (1987-1991)
Turn to Us (1991-1995)
Global Catholic Network (1996-1997)
Laudate Dominium omnes gentes et collaudate eum omnes populi (1996-2001)
Sharing the Splendor of Truth (2001-2016)
Live truth. Live Catholic. (2016–present)


Logos[edit]







EWTN Catholic Cable Network, 1983–1995









EWTN International Catholic Network, 1995–1996









EWTN Global Catholic Network, 1996–2016









EWTN on-screen logo




List of EWTN Broadcast Affiliates[edit]

K16HY-D channel 16.2, St. Paul/Minneapolis, MN
WORO-DT channel 13.2, Fajardo/San Juan, PR
KDEO-LD channel 23.1, Denver, CO
W08EM-D channel 7.1, Wilkes-Barre/Scranton, PA
KJCS-LD channel 38.1, Colorado Springs, CO
K17KW-D channel 17.1, Gettysburg/Pierre, SD

See also[edit]


Catholicism portal




Angelus TV
Cadena COPE
Catholic Media Network
Catholic Television of Nigeria
Catholic TV (Pakistan)
CatholicTV
H2onews
Holy See Press Office
International religious radio broadcasters
International religious television broadcasters
KTO (TV channel)
National Catholic Register (owned by EWTN)
Salt + Light Television
Radio Maria
Telepace
TV2000
Vatican Radio
Vatican Television Center


Notes[edit]



^ According to Father Andrew Apostoli, TV host of EWTN: Sunday Night Prime, the saying is derived from the practice of Mother Angelica asking Jesus Christ for financial help, by placing a letter of request between the gas and electric bill (sometimes gas and telephone bill). The saying was later adopted for benefactors who donate to EWTN, in response to propagating its ministry.



References[edit]

Citations



^ a b Satellite Information for Asia Pacific, EWTN 
^ Satellite Information for Africa & South Asia, EWTN 
^ EWTN, First Media 
^ "Mother Angelica Encyclopedia of Alabama". Encyclopedia of Alabama. Retrieved 2016-03-29. 
^ "EWTN Press Release - Two Years After Suffering a Major Stroke Mother Angelica Lives Her Life of Prayer". ewtn.com. 
^ "EWTN Radio". SiriusXM. 
^ "EWTN Shortwave Frequency Guide". ewtn.com. 
^ "EWTN Red Católica Mundial". ewtn.com. 
^ Catholic Online. "EWTN To Be Made Available in HD". catholic.org. 
^ "EWTN Press Room". ewtn.com. Archived from the original on 2011-05-22. 
^ "EWTN - Support EWTN". ewtn.com. 
^ a b "National Catholic Register". National Catholic Register. 
^ "EWTN Religious Catalogue Featured Highlights". ewtn.com. 
^ "Pope taps James Martin and EWTN chief as communications consultants". CruxNow.com. April 12, 2017. Retrieved April 14, 2017. 
^ Applebome, Peter (October 8, 1989). "Scandals Aside, TV Preachers Thrive". The New York Times. 
^ "A Signal for the New Evangelization". NCRegister.com. Retrieved April 14, 2017. 
^ Toby Eddings, "Time to get back on the 'Soul Train'," The Sun News, May 30, 1999.
^ "EWTN Radio - Solid Catholic Talk & Info - SiriusXM Radio". SiriusXM.com. Retrieved April 14, 2017. 
^ Company, Our Sunday Visitor Catholic Publishing. "Letters to the Editor for December 18, 2016". Our Sunday Visitor Catholic Publishing Company. 
^ "Marcus Grodi - The Coming Home Network". The Coming Home Network. 
^ "EWTN Press Release - EWTN HD Launches on Comcast in Richmond Area". ewtn.com. 
^ Another EWTN First: Catholic Network To Launch on Roku Retrieved October 19, 2011
^ a b Raymond Arroyo (2007), Mother Angelica: the Remarkable Story of a Nun, Her Nerve and a Network of Miracles, Crown Publishing Group, pp. 243–244, ISBN 9780307423726 
^ St. Thomas Aquinas Archived January 9, 2006, at the Wayback Machine.
^ Margaret O'Brien Steinfels Liturgical confusion-criticism over a pastoral letter Editorial, Commonweal, January 30, 1998
^ John L. Allen, Jr. Mahony sees nun's critique as heresy charge-Cardinal Roger Mahony; dispute with televangelist Mother M. Angelica, National Catholic Reporter, Dec 5, 1997.[dead link]
^ a b John L. Allen, Jr. EWTN's bishop says priests must face the people-Eternal Word Television Network-Brief Article, National Catholic Reporter November 19, 1999.[dead link]
^ "Mother Angelica: The remarkable story of a nun, her nerve and a network of miricles [sic]". thefreelibrary.com. 
^ "Papal award validates mission of EWTN, says CEO". Catholic News Agency. 
^ "EWTN Forms New Publishing Group With Sophia Institute Press". National Catholic Register. 
^ "Charity Navigator - Rating for EWTN". CharityNavigator.org. Retrieved April 14, 2017. 
^ "EWTN Series". ewtn.com. 


External links[edit]

EWTN – Official website
EWTN online broadcast







v
t
e


Sirius XM Radio channels



Entertainment



Blue Collar Radio
Canada Laughs
Fox News Radio
The Foxxhole
Laugh USA
Martha Stewart Living Radio
Raw Dog Comedy
Sirius XM Stars





Family and health



Doctor Radio
Kids Place Live
Radio Classics
Radio Disney





News



BBC World Service
Bloomberg Radio
CNBC
CNN
CNN en Español
C-Span Radio
Fox News Channel
Fox News Talk
HLN
MSNBC
NPR Now
POTUS Politics
PRX
SiriusXM Patriot
SiriusXM Progress
Sirius XM Public Radio
SiriusXM Insight
SiriusXM Urban View





Religion



FamilyNet Radio
The Catholic Channel
EWTN
FamilyTalk





Sports



ESPN Radio
ESPNU Radio
ESPN Xtra
IndyCar Radio
Mad Dog Sports Radio
MLB Network Radio
NBA Radio
NASCAR Radio
NFL Radio
The Score
XM Scoreboard





Latin



Calendrier Sportif
Canada 360
Canada Talks
CBC Radio One
ESPN Deportes Radio
Ici Radio-Canada Première
Quoi de Neuf
Radio Parallèle





Other



America's Talk
ATN-Asian Radio
Cosmo Radio
Extreme Talk
Howard 100
Howard 101
Playboy Radio
RCI+
ReachMD
Road Dog Trucking
Sirius XM Indie
Sirius XM Weather & Emergency
Specials
Faction Talk
The Weather Network
WRN Broadcast





Premium channels



Sirius XM Public Radio
Faction Talk
OutQ
SiriusXM NHL Network Radio
SiriusXM PGA Tour Radio












v
t
e


Broadcast television networks in the United States










v
t
e


English-language broadcast television networks in the United States



Major



ABC
CBS
The CW
Fox
NBC





Minor



AMG
Ion
MyNetwork
Youtoo America





Public TV



PBS

Kids


American Public Television

Create
World


CAS
MHz Worldview
NASA TV





Specialty




Information



Cheddar
Doctor
Weather

AccuWeather
WeatherNation







Sports



Frost Great Outdoors
Pursuit
Rev'n
Stadium
Untamed





Other



Family Channel
Justice
Qubo
TBD
Ethnic

Asia Vision
Bounce
Soul of the South


Gender

Escape
Grit
Tuff


Lifestyle

Ion Life
LWN


Music

TCN
Heartland







International



CV
DW
France 24
NHK
Korean

Arirang
KBS
KEMS
MBC
SBS







Classic



Antenna
Cozi
Decades
Get
Light
Me
Retro
Movies

Movies!
This






Genre



Buzzr
Charge!
Comet
H&I
Laff








Shopping



Evine
HSN
Jewelry
LifehacksDRTV
OnTV4U
QVC
Shop LC








Defunct




Major



DuMont
NET
UPN
The WB





Minor



A1
AIN
Ch.America
FamilyNetc
Hughes
Mizlou
N1
NATVi
NTA Film
Omni
ON/UN
PTN
Plum
PTEN
SFM Holiday
Star
Theater
TVS
UATV
Variety
Works





Specialty



News

ABC News Now
All News
DoD News
NBC Wx+/NBC+
TouchVision


Dot2
PBJ
Research
Sportsmanc
Sports

American Sports Network
Universal


WSTV
Shopping

America's Store
Gems TV
Gun TV
Shop at Home







Music



Bohemia Visual Musici
The Box
MTV2c
Tr3sc
Retro Jams
TheCoolTVi
The Tube






c - Now cable-only, i - Now internet-only
















v
t
e


Spanish-language broadcast television networks in the United States



Major



Azteca América
Estrella TV
Telemundo
UniMás
Univision





Specialty



LATV (bilingual English/Spanish)
Mega TV
Cine Mexicano
Tele N
MiCasa Network
Mira TV
Multimedios
¡Sorpresa!
TeleXitos
TeLe-Romántica
Tr3́s





Defunct



América CV
Hispanic Television Network
Inmigrante TV
LAT TV
MundoMax
Soi TV
TuVisión
VasalloVision















v
t
e


Religious broadcast television networks in the United States



TBN Networks



TBN
Hillsong
JUCE
Smile
Enlace (in Spanish)
Salsa





English







3ABN
Al Karma TV
Amazing Facts
BYU
Catholic
CBN
CTN
Cornerstone
Daystar
EICB
EWTN
Family
GEB
GLC
GOD
Hope
Hope Church
INSP
IQRA TV
Loma Linda
Sonlife
Telecare
Tri-State
Total Living
Unity
Walk
Word
World Harvest
Worship








Spanish



3ABN Latino
Aliento Vision
Almavisión
Aviva TV
CTNi
Esperanza TV
Familia TV
Fe-TV
HCCN
Iglesia JEMIR
Red AdVenir
Tele Vida Abundante
Tvida Vision















v
t
e


Additional resources on North American television



North America



List of local television stations in North America
DTV transition
North American TV mini-template





Canada



Canadian networks
List of Canadian television networks
List of Canadian television channels
List of Canadian specialty channels
Local Canadian TV stations
List of United States stations available in Canada
2001 Vancouver TV realignment
2007 Canada broadcast TV realignment





Mexico



Mexican networks
Local Mexican TV stations





United States



American networks
List of American cable and satellite networks
List of American over-the-air networks
Local American TV stations (W)
Local American TV stations (K)
Spanish-language TV networks
1994 United States broadcast TV realignment
2006 United States broadcast TV realignment
List of Canadian television stations available in the United States
Insular Areas TV















v
t
e


Digital television in North America



Terrestrial




Digital broadcasting



ATSC tuners
Digital subchannels
Virtual channels
Distributed transmission system
Datacasting

Guide Plus
National Datacast
UpdateLogic


Metropolitan Television Alliance
Grand Alliance





Digital switchover



All-Channel Receiver Act
SAFER Act
Digital channel election
Set-top boxes
Digital television adapter
U.S. Converter Box Coupon Program

legislation


Analog passthrough
DVD recorders
Digital video recorders





Digital standards



ATSC Standards

ATSC
ATSC-M/H
8VSB
A-VSB
E-VSB
PSIP
PMCP
full list


Standard-definition TV

480i
576i


Enhanced-definition TV

480p
576p


High-definition TV

720p
1080i
1080p


Serial digital interface
Smart antennas

CEA-909







Digital networks



see Template:American broadcast television
Template:Canadian television networks





National deployment



List by country
Canada
Mexico
United States

HDTV
transition
wireless spectrum auction










Cable




Digital cable



Digital-cable-ready TV

QAM tuners


Interactive-digital-cable-ready TV

OpenCable Application Platform


Encryption
Must-carry





Subscription TV



AllVid
CableCARD
Downloadable Conditional Access System
Tru2way








Satellite TV



DVB-S

Dish Network
GlobeCast World TV
Free-to-air receiver
Bell TV/Telus Satellite TV
Dish México


DigiCipher 2

4DTV
Shaw Direct


Digital Satellite Service/DVB-S2

DirecTV







IPTV



AT&T U-verse
Bell Fibe TV
FibreOP
Telus Optik TV





Technical issues



14:9
Active Format Description
Broadcast flag
Channel protection ratios
HDTV blur
Hierarchical modulation
Pirate decryption
Standards conversion
Video on demand












Authority control



WorldCat Identities
VIAF: 146659280
LCCN: n85389524
BNE: XX5063663










 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=EWTN&oldid=810596151"					
Categories: 1981 establishments in AlabamaAmerican television networksCatholic radio stationsRoman Catholic television channelsRoman Catholic television networksChristian media companiesChristian radio stations in the United StatesCompanies based in Birmingham, AlabamaExternal services (broadcasting)Media in Birmingham, AlabamaReligious television stations in the United StatesRoman Catholic Ecclesiastical Province of MobileSirius Satellite Radio channelsTelevision channels and stations established in 1981Hidden categories: Webarchive template wayback linksAll articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from January 2016All articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from October 2011Articles needing additional references from January 2016All articles needing additional referencesArticles with Spanish-language external linksWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers 
