Game Show Network - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Game Show Network





Launched
December 1, 1994; 22 years ago (1994-12-01)


Owned by
Game Show Network, LLC (Sony Pictures Television) (58%)
AT&T (42%)


Picture format
1080i (HDTV)
(HD feed downgraded to letterboxed 480i for SDTVs)


Slogan
Ready To Play?


Country
United States


Language
English


Broadcast area
United States
Canada


Headquarters
Santa Monica, California, U.S.


Sister channel(s)
Via Sony Pictures:
Sony Movie Channel
Cine Sony Television
Sony Entertainment Television
AXN
Animax
GetTV
Movies4Men
More Than Movies
Scuzz
Starz TV
Kix
Pop
Tiny Pop
The Vault
True Drama
True Entertainment
True Movies 1
True Movies 2
Via AT&T:
Audience Network
AT&T SportsNet
MLB Network


Website
www.gsntv.com



Availability



Satellite


DirecTV
233 (HD/SD)


Dish Network
116 (HD/SD)


Bell TV (Canada)
639


Shaw Direct (Canada)
177 / 549


C-Band - H2H/4DTV
AMC 18 - 205


Cable


Available on many U.S. and Canadian cable providers
Check local cable listings, channels may vary


IPTV


Verizon FiOS
684 (HD)
184 (SD)


AT&T U-Verse
1173 (HD)
173 (SD)


RCN
128


Bell Fibe TV (Canada)
639


Zazeen (Canada)
109 (HD)


Streaming media


Sling TV
Internet Protocol television


Game Show Network (GSN) is an American digital cable and satellite television channel that is owned as a joint venture between Sony Pictures Television (owning a controlling 58% interest)[1] and AT&T Entertainment Group (holding a 42% ownership stake).[1]
The channel's programming is primarily dedicated to game shows, including reruns of classic game shows, along with new, first-run original and revived game shows. For a period in the mid-2000s, Game Show Network began branching out into "games" in general, including reality competition series and televised poker shows.
GSN is available to 79.0 million households in America as of January 2016.[2]



Contents


1 History

1.1 1992–1994: Pre-launch: Game Show Channel
1.2 1994–1997: Game Show Network
1.3 1998–2004
1.4 2004–present: GSN


2 Programming

2.1 Original programming

2.1.1 Specials


2.2 Acquired programming
2.3 GSN HD
2.4 GSN On Demand


3 Online gaming
4 Syndication
5 See also
6 Notes
7 References
8 External links



History[edit]
1992–1994: Pre-launch: Game Show Channel[edit]
On May 7, 1992, Sony Pictures Entertainment joined forces with the United Video Satellite Group to launch Game Show Channel, which was set to launch in 1993. The announcement of the channel was made by SPE president Mel Harris.[3] Sony Pictures' holdings included those by Merv Griffin Enterprises and Barris Industries, Inc. SPE was in competition with The Family Channel in launching a game show-oriented channel when The Family Channel announced the launch of its own service called Game Channel.
On December 2, 1992, Sony Pictures Entertainment made a deal to acquire the Barry & Enright game show library, and in a separate deal, struck a 10-year licensing agreement for the rights to the Mark Goodson game show library of more than 20,000 episodes including among others, What's My Line?, Family Feud and To Tell the Truth. Upon the deal, Sony said it would sell an equity stake in the network to Mark Goodson Productions, including the production of new original series by Jonathan Goodson Productions.[4] Both deals were completed on December 7, 1992, eleven days before Mark Goodson's death.[5] On June 6, 1994, Mark Goodson Productions pulled out of the venture.[6][7]
1994–1997: Game Show Network[edit]
Game Show Network launched at 7:00 p.m. ET on December 1, 1994.[8] The first aired game show was What's My Line?.[9][a] From 1994 until about 1997, the network aired classic pre-1972 game shows as well as game shows made after 1972, most of which came from the Mark Goodson–Bill Todman library. The network aired game shows in a 24-hour cycle, and also used live interstitials as wraparound programming. In its first few months, GSN's commercials consisted of public service announcements (PSAs), promotions for its programming and commercials related to network parent company Sony. By 1995, when the network began to expand, the network began accepting conventional advertising as it gained new sponsorships. On March 17, 1997, the Game Show Network rebranded with a new presentation package and a new logo (which had the network's name in boxes and a colorful swirling ball) and a new slogan "All Play, All Day". While the logo changed, its programming remained unchanged, the network also debuted new promos and new idents on that day, which were designed by graphics agency Lee Hunt Associates.
On October 11, 1997, the network's rights to the Goodson-Todman library expired, with the exceptions of The Price Is Right and the 1994–95 season of Family Feud (the only season in the second Richard Dawson era), which were both allowed to continue airing on the channel on a separate contract. This period lasted until April 18, 1998.[citation needed]
With the other Goodson-Todman shows gone, lesser-known Sony properties such as Juvenile Jury, The Diamond Head Game, the 1976–77 version of Break the Bank, and the Bill Cullen-hosted games Chain Reaction and Pass the Buck all found their way onto the schedule. Shows from Chuck Barris also aired during this time, including The Newlywed Game, The Dating Game, The Gong Show, Treasure Hunt and 3's a Crowd.
Game Show Network also aired a children's game show block at this time, highlighted by Joker! Joker! Joker!, Jep!, and Wheel 2000 – the respective adaptations of The Joker's Wild, Jeopardy! and Wheel of Fortune.
1998–2004[edit]
On April 18, 1998, Game Show Network bought back the rights to the Goodson-Todman library. In late 1998, GSN eliminated all of its live programming, replacing them with in-show advertisements like Win TV. In 1999, the network began a slate of original programming, including Inquizition, All New 3's a Crowd and Hollywood Showdown. The channel also launched original shows such as Extreme Gong (a remake of the classic Gong Show). In 2000, the network faced another setback when GSN lost the rights to broadcast The Price Is Right, with the last episode airing on April 3 of that year.
In 2001, a massive change in both leadership and programming at the network took place. Liberty Media acquired a 50% stake in the network and changed its leadership. President Michael Fleming and vice president Jake Tauber were both fired and former Fox Family Channel president Rich Cronin were hired to head the network. He and incoming vice president Bob Boden began the biggest original programming venture since the network's inception, launching Whammy! The All-New Press Your Luck, Friend or Foe?, Russian Roulette, Lingo, WinTuition and Cram. In addition, in the fall of 2001, the network acquired the rights to air the classic Press Your Luck (excluding the Michael Larson episodes, due to pressure from CBS; this angered many fans, resulting in CBS eventually giving Game Show Network the rights to the Larson episodes, airing them in a separate package, as well as in conjunction with the documentary Big Bucks: The Press Your Luck Scandal).
In the fall of 2003, Game Show Network picked up the rights to the ABC version of Who Wants to Be a Millionaire with Regis Philbin, and in December, began airing GSN Video Games, the first program to air on the network that had nothing to do with traditional game shows. Although the show – a repackaging of somewhat dated British video game review shows (mostly Gamer.tv) – was short-lived, it was a sign of the network's change of format from Game Show Network's "all game shows, all the time" to what eventually became "GSN: The Network for Games". Its last program using Game Show Network was Lingo.
2004–present: GSN[edit]
On March 15, 2004, Game Show Network began using the abbreviation "GSN" and introduced the tagline "The Network for Games", a move in line with the network expanding its programming to include the genre of reality television and various other competitions. GSN also introduced the original series at 10 p.m. weekdays, World Series of Blackjack, National Lampoon's Greek Games, Kenny vs. Spenny (a Canadian import) and the short-lived Fake-a-Date, a find-a-mate program with host Evan Marriott, the original Joe Millionaire. GSN also added reruns of The Mole and Spy TV.[10][11]
Blackjack and Poker Royale signified the beginnings of GSN's attempts to cash in on the TV poker craze at the time. In 2006, GSN introduced High Stakes Poker, a poker show with a private game format among professional players, and also aired additional series World Series of Blackjack and a spinoff, Celebrity Blackjack. One of the most popular shows from the initial TV poker boom, the World Poker Tour, was slated to move from the Travel Channel to GSN on March 24, 2008. Within a year of GSN's revamp, it began returning its focus primarily to studio-based game shows.
On February 25, 2008, GSN returned to live television games and debuted GSN Live, a live interactive call-in show, hosted by Heidi Bohay and Fred Roggin. The show was similar in format to a former Game Show Network program, Club A.M., and aired weekdays from 12 to 3 p.m. ET during breaks between the programming line-up at the time. The show featured calls from viewers, interviews with classic game show hosts and behind-the-scenes features of game shows. At three separate points in each day, interactive games were played with at-home contestants. Contestants could win anything from jewelry to GSN merchandise, or during month-long contests, a new car or a hot tub.
In March 2011, DirecTV (which by this point had taken over Liberty Media's stake in the network, which had increased to 65%) sold a 5% stake in the network back to Sony Pictures Entertainment; although DirecTV nominally remained the majority owner, it had ceded control of the network to Sony, and has the right to force Sony to increase its stake in GSN to 58%.[12]
On August 23, 2012, GSN debuted The American Bible Challenge hosted by Jeff Foxworthy, which became the channel's most popular program of all time, with the series premiere being watched by two million viewers. On September 3, 2012, GSN debuted a revival of The $25,000 Pyramid, called The Pyramid hosted by Mike Richards. On November 8, 2012, DirecTV sold an 18% interest in GSN to Sony.[13]
Programming[edit]
Main article: List of programs broadcast by Game Show Network
Original programming[edit]
GSN has also produced several original series. In the channel's early days, GSN aired a three-hour block called Club A.M., consisting of five classic game shows, surrounded by thirty minutes' worth of interstitial trivia, interviews with game show producers, personalities, contestants and fans, and interactive call-in games, all hosted by Laura Chambers and Steve Day (which was also rerun in late night, with some new segments, under the title Late Night Games). Prime Games was a similarly formatted show aired weeknights and hosted by Peter Tomarken. Wide World of Games was a Saturday night block of four shows built around a common theme.
After a few years, these shows were replaced by Game TV (a half-hour interview show hosted by Nancy Sullivan and Dave Nemeth), Game World (which showed highlights of current game shows from around the world), and standalone 30-minute call-in games like Super Decades and Trivia Track. Later, the channel attempted a Gong Show remake called Extreme Gong (hosted by George Gray, in which the viewers could phone in their votes as to whether to "gong" acts off the air) and Throut And Neck (hosted by Rebecca Grant)[14][15] (where viewers controlled video game characters with their phones). But all these efforts were eventually canceled and removed from the network's schedule.
Traditional game show offerings since 2000 have included Hollywood Showdown, Inquizition, All New 3's a Crowd, Mall Masters, Whammy! The All-New Press Your Luck, Friend or Foe? (a game based on the Prisoner's Dilemma), Russian Roulette, WinTuition, Cram, National Lampoon's Funny Money and Lingo (a Chuck Woolery-hosted revival of the 1987–88 Canadian format in which teams guess five-letter words in a combination of Jotto/Mastermind and bingo). The network produced six seasons of the show from 2002 to 2007.
Originals debuting in 2006 included PlayMania, a late night call-in game that expanded from two to (at one point) six nights a week continuing until October 31, 2007; and a revival of the 1980s game Chain Reaction, which ended its run on June 9, 2007. That's the Question, Starface, and a revival of I've Got a Secret also debuted in 2006. Debuting in July 2007 were Camouflage, remade as a word game, and Without Prejudice?, a remake of a British show where five people decide which contestant would win $25,000 based in part on their responses to questioning. Debuting on August 4, 2007 was Grand Slam, a game show involving big winners from other shows, including Ken Jennings, John Carpenter, and Brad Rutter.
For 2008, a U.S. version of a BBC game show called How Much Is Enough? debuted on January 8, hosted by actor Corbin Bernsen, and then in April, Bingo America made its debut with Patrick Duffy of Dallas and Step by Step fame as host. On July 21, as something of a tie-in with the movie 21, Merrill Heatter returned to game-show producing with Catch 21 (a revival of the 1970s game Gambit) hosted by Alfonso Ribeiro with actress Mikki Padilla as the dealer. GSN also relaunched a live interactive call-in interstitial series, this time known as GSN Live, which aired during commercial breaks between 12 PM and 6 PM Eastern Monday through Friday. Originally the series took place over a three-hour span, with KNBC sports anchor and NBC Sports contributor Fred Roggin and actress Heidi Bohay hosting the interstitial segments. Later in the year GSN expanded the series to six hours, with Roggin moving to the 3 PM to 6 PM block with Kelly Packard while Alfonso Ribeiro replaced him earlier in the day. Packard was forced to leave her position shortly after taking it, and Roggin hosted with a guest host until May 15, 2009 when Debra Skelton was chosen to be a permanent co-host as of May 26. Roggin was forced to leave GSN Live on July 2, 2009 in order to concentrate on his new game show The Money List. Alfonso was forced to leave GSN Live on August 11, 2009 in order to concentrate on hosting Catch 21. GSN Live itself ended in July 2011.
Also in 2009, The Newlywed Game returned to the air on GSN, this time with Wilson Phillips singer Carnie Wilson as host. On June 13, GSN premiered its Big Saturday Night live interactive show block, hosted by Keegan-Michael Key, Ross Matthews and Charissa Thompson. The three-hour block features a variety of games, such as identifying pictures. Included in the block are 20Q, hosted by Cat Deeley of So You Think You Can Dance and featuring the voice of actor-comedian Hal Sparks as "Mr. Q"; and The Money List, hosted by Fred Roggin of GSN Live. A hidden camera series, Instant Recall, hosted by game show icon Wink Martindale, premiered on March 4, 2010.[16][17] A revival of 1 vs. 100, hosted by Carrie Ann Inaba, aired in 2010.
On November 18, 2010, Game Show Network announced that Drew Carey would host a new improvisational comedy show entitled Drew Carey's Improv-A-Ganza in the Spring of 2011. The shows were filmed at the MGM Grand in Las Vegas in January and February 2011. The show lasted forty episodes before being canceled due to low ratings.
In the fall of 2012, GSN premiered a new revival titled The Pyramid, with The Price Is Right producer Mike Richards hosting. The American Bible Challenge with Jeff Foxworthy became the channel's most popular program of all time, with the series premiere being watched by two million viewers.
On August 6, 2013, GSN debuted The Chase hosted by Brooke Burns and featuring Mark Labbett as "The Beast."
In the summer of 2014, GSN debuted new series such as It Takes a Church, Skin Wars, and Idiotest.
GSN has announced they will be showing a US version of the BBC One show Pointless[18].
Specials[edit]
The network has run blocks of classic game shows on Saturday nights, and for the first few months of 2006 programmed back-to-back episodes of Match Game in a block billed as That '70s Hour (a pun on That '70s Show), which showed the original production slate before each episode as well as Match Game trivia and brief clips of an interview with host Gene Rayburn produced shortly before his death. Although production slates had been aired by the network prior to this, "That '70s Hour" was the first time the network intentionally did so. During the Summer of 2006, the network began a special seven-week run of The 50 Greatest Game Shows of All Time.
In November 2006, GSN started a series of eight documentaries hosted by Chuck Woolery, each about game shows, beginning with a program on Match Game titled Behind The Blank. Other subjects included game show producer Chuck Barris, Who Wants To Be a Millionaire?, a "Top Ten" countdown of game show hosts, memorable game show moments, women who have featured prominently on game shows, celebrities and how they impacted game shows, and an insider's guide to winning on a game show.
One particularly interesting subject was the installments of Press Your Luck in which Michael Larson won more than $100,000 in cash and prizes by memorizing the sequences of the board then used, which was the subject of Big Bucks: The "Press Your Luck" Scandal. Peter Tomarken, who had hosted Press Your Luck, hosted and narrated this documentary in 2003. The documentary became Game Show Network's most watched show ever at the time scoring a 1.7 at one point during the show. Originally, CBS, the original broadcaster of Press Your Luck, did not want GSN to air the Larson episodes. However, this angered many fans, causing CBS to allow Game Show Network to air the episodes as part of the documentary as well as standalone episodes.
In 2007, the network debuted two new specials: the National Vocabulary Championship, with a show airing on April 15, 2007 showcasing the first year of the event, and a broadcast of the Cat Fanciers' Association International Cat Show, Catminster.
In November 2008, GSN and Meow Mix presented a special entitled Think Like a Cat, hosted by Chuck Woolery, with a top prize of $1 million, one of the few times a game show on cable television has had that amount as a grand prize.
On December 16, 2014, GSN aired a special called Game Show Flashback, hosted by Ben Gleib, which featured some of the best moments in game show history.
On December 23, 2014, GSN aired a 2-hour special called The Line, hosted by Jeff Davis and Candace Bailey.
On January 1, 2015, in preparation for the revival of Baggage entitled Baggage on the Road, GSN aired a special called Baggage: Most Outrageous Moments hosted by Jerry Springer.
Acquired programming[edit]
GSN's acquired programming comes primarily from FremantleMedia, with acquired programming also coming from NBCUniversal Television Distribution, Warner Bros. Television Distribution, and GSN parent company Sony Pictures Television. Before Liberty Media purchased 50% of the network, GSN had unlimited access to the game shows owned by Sony Pictures Entertainment subsidiary Columbia TriStar Television. Once Liberty purchased its stake in the venture, Sony began charging licensing fees for their shows, despite its half-ownership of the network.
From Fremantle, the network licenses Match Game (Rayburn), Family Feud (Karn, O'Hurley, and Harvey), Card Sharks (Perry and Eubanks), Press Your Luck, and Sale of the Century. GSN had licensed the entire Mark Goodson-Bill Todman library from its inception until March 2009 and has, in the past, also licensed Let's Make a Deal (another Fremantle property) for air on the network. Older versions of these shows are now aired on rival channel Buzzr, which is a sub-channel on many broadcast television stations in major cities.
In the network's infancy, GSN regularly showcased vintage Goodson-Todman game and panel shows from the 1950s and 1960s, many of which were either originally broadcast or only preserved in black-and-white – such as What's My Line?, I've Got a Secret, To Tell the Truth and Beat the Clock. These classic shows made up much of the channel's lineup at the outset, but have been gradually cut back in prominence since the late 1990s. On October 1, 2006, only What's My Line? had a regular spot on the schedule, late Sunday/early Monday at 3:00 a.m. ET; it was followed by a selection from various 1950s, 1960s and 1970s Goodson-Todman shows, usually another panel game. On December 31, GSN reinstated the Black and White Overnight to seven days a week from 3:00 to 4:00 a.m. ET, showcasing What's My Line? and I've Got a Secret in the block; other shows, including Choose Up Sides, The Name's the Same, and the Bud Collyer-hosted primetime version of To Tell the Truth have been featured; this run ended March 31, 2009. Black and White Overnight has returned for two weeks in December since 2009, featuring What's My Line? and I've Got a Secret.
Over the years, GSN, in addition to its Goodson-Todman library, featured game shows from other studios:

NBCUniversal Television Distribution: Twenty-One (2000), Weakest Link, Dog Eat Dog, Deal or No Deal, 1 vs. 100 (original version; a 2010 revival is a GSN Original), and Minute to Win It (original version; a 2013 revival is a GSN Original)
20th Television: Greed and Are You Smarter Than a 5th Grader? (Fox)
CBS Television Distribution: Hollywood Squares (Bergeron version only in conjunction with Sony Pictures Television)
MGM Domestic Television Distribution: Hollywood Squares (Marshall version only)
Warner Bros. Television Distribution: Love Connection, Street Smarts, and Let's Ask America
Disney-ABC Domestic Television: Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?, Win Ben Stein's Money, and Win, Lose or Draw (Convy version only)

GSN also airs, or has aired, the Sony Pictures Television library programming from the following companies:

The Guber-Peters Entertainment Company (formerly Barris Industries): The Newlywed Game, The Dating Game, The Gong Show (except the Gary Owens version), 3's a Crowd, Treasure Hunt, and Quiz Kids Challenge.
Barry & Enright Productions (except the pre-scandal and the 1990 versions of Tic Tac Dough and The Joker's Wild owned by NBCUniversal Television): Tic-Tac-Dough (1978–86 syndicated), The Joker's Wild (1972–86 versions), Break the Bank (1976–77 versions), Bullseye, Play the Percentages, and Bumper Stumpers.
Merv Griffin Enterprises: Headline Chasers, Jeopardy!, and Wheel of Fortune (for Wheel, exceptions are the Benirschke and Goen versions).
Stewart Television (excepting the 1970s Jackpot!, The $50,000 Pyramid, shows owned by CBS Television Distribution, and the 1991 The $100,000 Pyramid (owned by NBCUniversal Television Distribution)): Jackpot!, Pass the Buck, Go, Chain Reaction, and the surviving Pyramid incarnations.
2waytraffic: That's the Question
Sony Pictures Television (including its predecessors from Screen Gems to Columbia TriStar Television): Pyramid (Osmond & Richards), Russian Roulette, new incarnations and new series co-produced by Sony-owned Embassy Row, post-1994 episodes of Wheel of Fortune and Jeopardy!, Dealer's Choice, The Diamond Head Game, and The Fun Factory (all were produced by Fishman-Freer Productions), and Celebrity Charades (produced by Fein-Schwartz Productions).

In October 2003, GSN acquired the rerun rights to Who Wants To Be A Millionaire? (from Disney-ABC Domestic Television, both the network and syndicated versions) and have added more episodes since, including the Super Millionaire spin-off from 2004, although none have aired on the network since November 2012. Among the most well-known classic game shows previously aired regularly on the network include The Price Is Right, The Joker's Wild, Tattletales, Hollywood Squares, The Dating Game, Love Connection and Let's Make a Deal.
GSN HD[edit]
GSN HD is a high definition simulcast feed on Game Show Network that broadcasts in the 1080i resolution format, it launched on September 15, 2010.[19] It is currently carried nationwide on DirecTV and Dish Network, regionally on AT&T U-verse, and in limited markets on providers such as Time Warner Cable, Service Electric Cable TV, Verizon FiOS, Comcast, Charter Communications and Bright House Networks.[20]
Since 2010, all GSN original programming has been produced in HD. Until 2014, while classic programs are aired in their original aspect ratio, almost all other non-HD programming was stretched to fit the aspect ratio of 16:9 screens, and the HD feed is letterboxed for SD on all programming. Currently all programming is shown in their original aspect ratios.
GSN On Demand[edit]
GSN partnered with Vubiquity to launch GSN On Demand on August 15, 2013. Current On Demand options include recent GSN Originals such as Baggage and The Chase as well as episodes of Steve Harvey's Family Feud.[21]
Online gaming[edit]
In 2007, Liberty Media acquired the Toronto-based FUN Technologies, operator of the popular online tournament casual gaming website WorldWinner. Following the acquisition, Liberty began to extend the GSN brand into online gaming by re-branding WorldWinner as a GSN service.[22] GSN also launched a social gaming app on Facebook, now known as GSN Casino, featuring skill and casino games along with competitive tournaments. By October 2010, GSN Casino had over 8 million active users. GSN also developed a Wheel of Fortune app for Facebook, released in 2010.[23]
GSN also published GSN Casino mobile apps, featuring various slot machine and bingo games; in 2013, GSN Casino was the 10th highest grossing app for iPad on the App Store. In January 2014, GSN acquired Bitrhymes Inc., developers of the social and mobile games Bingo Bash and Slots Bash, for an undisclosed amount. GSN had sued Bitrhymes in November 2013 following its prior offer to acquire the company, arguing that it had attempted to back out of its offer and accept a different one during GSN's exclusive negotiation period.[24][25]
In a reversal of these synergies, it was announced in November 2014 that a game show based on Bingo Bash was in development for Game Show Network's 2015 slate of original programming.[26]
Syndication[edit]
GSN began syndicating some of its original programming to other channels in the early 2010s. Baggage aired in syndication on numerous local stations during the 2012-13 television season. On June 24, 2013, the channel entered into an agreement with Bounce TV allowing it the broadcast rights to The Newlywed Game, Catch 21 and The American Bible Challenge.[27][28] The American Bible Challenge aired in reruns on UP in fall 2013 and again in spring 2015. Drew Carey's Improv-A-Ganza airs on Laff.
See also[edit]

Buzzr (a competing network, available as an aerial subchannel in selected American markets)
Challenge (a British channel devoted to airing British game shows from various archives along with some international shows)
GameTV (a Canadian channel which airs classic Canadian game shows, and other programs)
Nickelodeon GAS (a now-defunct channel devoted to airing Nickelodeon game shows)
The Game Channel (A Philippine channel which more focused on family game shows and reality shows.)
Questions and Answers ("Questions and Answers"/a Russian channel devoted to Russian game shows along with a few international shows)

Notes[edit]



^ Game Show Network launched at 7 PM ET with a 24-hour marathon featuring one episode of every program in their archives at the time. The first episode that aired on GSN was a representative episode of the oldest series in their archives, a What's My Line? episode from March 8, 1953 featuring Jackie Gleason. Match Game took the regular 7 PM time slot the next day.



References[edit]


^ a b "Sony". 
^ "Cable Network Coverage Area Household Universe Estimates: January 2016". 
^ "New York Times" THE MEDIA BUSINESS; Sony Venture to Start Game Show Channel nytimes.com May 7, 1992, Retrieved on January 21, 2013
^ "Variety" Sony makes a deal for gameshow libraries variety.com December 7, 1992, Retrieved on January 21, 2013
^ "Highbeam Research" Sony Pictures' secret: Goodson's price is right. (Sony Pictures Entertainment Inc.'s licensing deal with Mark Goodson Productions) highbeam.com December 7, 1992, Retrieved on January 21, 2013.
^ "Goodson folds on Game Show Network". Broadcasting: 19. 1994-06-06.  |access-date= requires |url= (help)
^ "Los Angeles Times" Company Town Annex articles.latimes.com, Retrieved on January 21, 2013.
^ "GSN Corporate - GSN Corporate". Archived from the original on 2010-03-09. 
^ "GSN Official". Facebook. 2013-08-29. Retrieved 2014-05-07. 
^ Jicha, Tom (March 14, 2004). "Game Show Network Plays The Name Game". Sun Sentinel. Retrieved July 7, 2016. 
^ "Game Show Network Changing Name to GSN". Media Post. AP. March 17, 2004. Retrieved July 7, 2016. 
^ Goetzl, David (June 30, 2011). "Sony Gains Control of GSN Even With Minority Stake". TVBlog. MediaPost. Retrieved June 30, 2011. 
^ "InsideView" Update: DIRECTV sells 18% stake in GSN to Sony insideview.com, Retrieved on November 28, 2012
^ Throut & Neck - Canadia Episode - Part 1. 10 June 2009 – via YouTube. 
^ thewatcheruatu (25 May 2004). "Throut and Neck (TV Series 1999– )". IMDb. 
^ Sassone, Bob. "Wink Martindale to Host 'Instant Recall' on GSN Starting March 4". TV Squad (AOL). Retrieved 2010-02-05. 
^ "GSN Revives 1 vs. 100". Buzzerblog. Archived from the original on 2010-08-17. Retrieved 2010-09-20. 
^ Whittock, Jesse (March 15, 2017). "UK gameshow Pointless set for US remake". TBI Vision. KNect365 TMT. Retrieved October 22, 2017. 
^ "Game Show Network Press Release". 
^ "GSN HD Adds Comcast, Other New Affiliates". Multichannel News. Retrieved 11 June 2011. 
^ http://www.vubiquity.com/node/290
^ Viscarolosaga, Efrain. "WorldWinner's parent plans a whole new game". Mass High Tech. Archived from the original on 29 August 2011. Retrieved 5 February 2012. 
^ Morrison, Chris. "GSN Quietly Grows Large on Facebook With Game Shows and Tournaments". Inside Social Games. Retrieved 5 February 2012. 
^ "Game Show Network Sues After Gaming Company Cancels Acquisition". The Hollywood Reporter. Retrieved 16 February 2015. 
^ "That's a Bingo: GSN Gobbles Up Bash Gaming, Ending Lawsuit". Re/code. Retrieved 26 February 2014. 
^ "GSN BUILDS ON 2014 SUCCESS WITH NEW DEVELOPMENT FOR 2015". Game Show Network. Retrieved 16 February 2015. 
^ C. Daniel Baker "Black Enterprise" Bounce TV Acquires Broadcast Rights To American Bible Challenge & The Newlywed Game blackenterprise.com, Retrieved on July 1, 2013.
^ "PR Newswire" Bounce TV Acquires Broadcast Network Rights To The American Bible Challenge and Catch 21, prnewswire.com, Retrieved on July 1, 2013.


External links[edit]

Official website







v
t
e


Sony



Founders



Masaru Ibuka
Akio Morita





Key personnel



Kaz Hirai





Primary businesses



Sony Corporation
Sony Interactive Entertainment

PlayStation


Sony Mobile
Sony Entertainment

Sony Pictures Entertainment
Sony Music Entertainment
Sony/ATV Music Publishing


Sony Financial Holdings

Sony Life
Sony Bank







Technologies and brands



α (Alpha)
Betacam
Bionz
Blu-ray
BRAVIA
CD
Cell
Cyber-shot
Dash
Dream Machine
DVD
Exmor
FeliCa
Handycam
HDCAM/HDCAM-SR
LocationFree
Memory Stick
MiniDisc
MiniDV
mylo
PlayStation
Reader
S/PDIF
SDDS
SXRD
Sony Tablet
Tunnel diode
TransferJet
UMD
Vaio
Video8/Hi8/Digital8
Walkman
Walkman Phones
XDCAM
Xperia
HMZ-T1





Historical products



AIBO
CV-2000
DAT
Betamax
Sony CLIÉ
Discman
Jumbotron
Lissa
Mavica
NEWS
Qualia
Rolly
TR-55
Trinitron
1 inch Type C (BVH series)
U-matic
Watchman
WEGA





Electronics



Sony Electronics (US subsidiary)
Sony Energy Devices
Sony Creative Software
FeliCa Networks (57%)












v
t
e


Sony Interactive Entertainment



Key personnel



Andrew House
Shawn Layden
Shuhei Yoshida












v
t
e


Sony Interactive Entertainment Worldwide Studios



Franchises



Ape Escape
Arc the Lad
ATV Offroad Fury
Boku no Natsuyasumi
Buzz!
Colony Wars
Cool Boarders
DanceStar Party
Dark Cloud
Destruction Derby
Devil Dice
Echochrome
EverQuest
Everybody's Golf
Everybody's Tennis
EyePet
EyeToy
FantaVision
Fat Princess
G-Police
Genji
God of War
Gran Turismo
Gravity Rush
Hustle Kings
Infamous
Invizimals
Jak and Daxter
Jet Moto
Jumping Flash!
Killzone
Knack
Legend of Legaia
Lemmings
LittleBigPlanet
LocoRoco
MediEvil
MLB: The Show
ModNation Racers
MotorStorm
Motor Toon Grand Prix
Ore no Shikabane wo Koete Yuke/Oreshika
PaRappa the Rapper
Patapon
PlanetSide
Pursuit Force
Rally Cross
Ratchet & Clank
Resistance
Savage Moon
Shadow of the Beast
SingStar
Siren
Sly Cooper
Socom
Sports Champions
Start the Party!
Super Stardust
Syphon Filter
The Eye of Judgment
The Getaway
The Last of Us
This Is Football
Twisted Metal
Uncharted
Vib-Ribbon
Warhawk
What Did I Do to Deserve This, My Lord?/No Heroes Allowed
White Knight Chronicles
Wild Arms
Wipeout
Wonderbook
World Tour Soccer





Divisions



Bend Studio
Foster City Studio
Japan Studio
London Studio
San Diego Studio
Santa Monica Studio





Subsidiaries



Guerrilla Games
J.S.E.E.D.
PlayStation C.A.M.P.
Team Gravity
Team Ico
Media Molecule
Naughty Dog
PixelOpus
Polyphony Digital
Sucker Punch Productions
XDev





Former subsidiaries



989 Studios
Bigbig Studios
Contrail
Evolution Studios
Guerrilla Cambridge
Incognito Entertainment
Psygnosis
Team Soho
Zipper Interactive















v
t
e


PlayStation






Sony Interactive Entertainment
Sony Interactive Entertainment Worldwide Studios





Consoles




Home consoles



PlayStation

Models
Main hardware


PlayStation 2

Models
Main hardware


PlayStation 3

Models
Main hardware
System software


PlayStation 4

Main hardware
System software







Handhelds



PlayStation Portable

System software


PlayStation Vita

System software







Miscellaneous



PocketStation
PSX
PlayStation TV








Games




PS1 games



Best-selling
PS one Classics

NA
PAL
JP







PS2 games



Best-selling
Online games
HD games
PS2 Classics for PS3
PS2 games for PS4





PS3 games



Best-selling
Physical
Digital only
Physical and digital
3D games
PS Move games
PS Now games





PS4 games



Best-selling
Physical
PSVR





PSP games



Physical and digital
System software compatibilities
PS Minis





Other



PS Vita games

A–L
M–Z


PS Mobile games
TurboGrafx-16 Classics
NEOGEO Station
Classics HD
Instant Game Collection

NA
PAL
Asia
Japan
China







Reprints



Greatest Hits
Essentials
The Best
BigHit Series








Network



PlayStation Network
2011 outage
Central Station
FirstPlay
PlayStation App
PlayStation Blog
PlayStation Home
PlayStation Mobile
PlayStation Music
PlayStation Now
PlayStation Store
PlayStation Video
PlayStation Vue
PS2 online
Room for PSP
VidZone





Accessories




Controllers



PlayStation Controller
PlayStation Mouse
Analog Joystick
Dual Analog
DualShock
Sixaxis
PlayStation Move





Cameras



EyeToy
Go!Cam
PlayStation Eye
PlayStation Camera





Miscellaneous



Multitap
Link Cable
PS2 accessories
PS2 Headset
PS3 accessories
PlayTV
Wonderbook
PlayStation VR








Kits



Net Yaroze
PS2 Linux
GScube
OtherOS
Zego





Media




Magazines



Official U.S. PlayStation Magazine
PlayStation: The Official Magazine
PlayStation Official Magazine – UK
PlayStation Official Magazine – Australia
PlayStation Underground





Advertisements



Double Life
Mountain
PlayStation marketing





Characters



Toro
Polygon Man
Kevin Butler
Marcus Rivers








Arcade boards



Namco System 11
System 12
System 10
System 246
System 357





Related



Super NES CD-ROM
Sony Ericsson Xperia Play








 Category
 Portal








Other



Gaikai
SN Systems
Cellius (49%)
Dimps








 Category
 Portal















v
t
e


Sony Music Entertainment



Key personnel



Rob Stringer
Kevin Kelleher





Flagship



Columbia Records
RCA Records
Epic Records





Sony Music Nashville



Columbia Nashville
Arista Nashville
RCA Records Nashville
Provident Label Group





Sony Masterworks



Sony Classical Records
Portrait Records
RCA Red Seal Records
Okeh Records





Sony Music Entertainment Japan



Epic Records Japan
Ki/oon Music
Sony Music Entertainment Japan
Ariola Japan
BMG Japan
mora
Sacra Music
Aniplex

Aniplex of America
A-1 Pictures


Music On! TV





Distribution



RED Distribution
The Orchard

IODA







Other Labels



RCA Inspiration
Phonogenic Records
Ultra Music
Century Media Records
Legacy Recordings
Black Butter Records
Kemosabe Records
Robbins Entertainment
Syco Music (50%)
Sony Music Australia
Sony Music UK
Sony Music India
Sony Music Latin
Vevo
Volcano Entertainment















v
t
e


Sony Pictures Entertainment



Key personnel



Tony Vinciquerra
Thomas Rothman





Sony Pictures
Motion
Picture Group



Columbia Pictures
TriStar Pictures
TriStar Productions
Screen Gems
Sony Pictures Classics
Sony Pictures Releasing
Sony Pictures Imageworks
Sony Pictures Animation
Sony Pictures Worldwide Acquisitions

Destination Films
Stage 6 Films
Affirm Films


Sony Pictures Home Entertainment

Sony Wonder







Sony Pictures
Television




U.S. production



Adelaide Productions
Crackle

The Minisode Network


Culver Entertainment
Embassy Row
TriStar Television





U.S. distribution



Funimation (95%)





International production



2waytraffic
Left Bank Pictures
Teleset





TV channels & VOD







v
t
e


Sony Pictures Television TV channels and VOD platforms




O = online VOD platform



Americas




US networks



Sony Movie Channel
GSN (58% joint venture with AT&T Entertainment Group)
getTV
Cine Sony
CrackleO
Defunct
3net (joint venture with Discovery and IMAX)
Fearnet (joint venture with Comcast and Lions Gate Entertainment)





Canada



Sony Movie Channel and AXN Movies (rebranded)





Latin America



Canal Sony
AXN
Defunct
Animax
Locomotion
Sony Spin








Asia




Indian
sub-continent







v
t
e


Sony Pictures Networks India Pvt. Ltd.



Hindi entertainment



SET

International


Sony Sab
Sony Max
Sony Max 2
Sony Pal
Sony Wah





English entertainment



AXN
Sony Le Plex
Sony Pix





Bengali entertainment



Sony Aath





Sports



Sony Six
Sony ESPN (50%; Joint venture with ESPN Inc.)
Sony TEN

Sony TEN 1
Sony TEN 2
Sony TEN 3
Sony TEN Golf




Acquisition pending
TEN Sports Pakistan
TEN Cricket International





Music



Sony Mix
Sony Rox





Other channels



Sony BBC Earth (50%; Joint venture with BBC Worldwide)
Sony Yay





Other businesses



Sony Liv (Online VOD platform)
Sony Pictures Networks Productions








Japan



Animax

Animax PlusO


AXN

AXN Mystery
AXN PlusO


Star Channel (25% joint venture with News Corporation, Tohokushinsha Film, and Itochu)





South Korea



Animax (50% joint venture with KT SkyLife)

Animax PlusO


AXN (50% joint venture with IHQ)





Taiwan



AXN
Animax

Animax HD







south-east
Asia



Animax
AXN
Gem

south-east Asia (50% joint venture with Nippon Television Network Corporation)
Vietnam


Sony Channel
Sony One
Defunct
AXN Beyond
BeTV








Europe,
Middle
East,
Africa
(EMEA)




Germany



AnimaxO
AXN
Sony Channel
Defunct
Animax (linear television)





Italy



Cine Sony
Pop
Defunct
AXN
AXN Sci Fi





The
Netherlands



Film1

Film1 Action
Film1 Drama
Film1 Family
Film1 Premiere




Defunct
Film1 Festival
Film1 Sundance





Portugal



AXN

AXN Black
AXN White




Defunct
Animax





Russia



Sony Channel
Sony Turbo
Sony Sci-Fi





Spain



AXN

AXN SyncO
AXN White




Defunct
Animax





Turkey



Sony Channel
Sony Çocuk
Planet Mutfak
Planet Türk





UK & Ireland







v
t
e


Television channels in the United Kingdom and Ireland operated by Sony Pictures Television




Including CSC Media Group television channels



Entertainment channels



Movies4Men
Sony Channel
Sony Movie Channel
TruTV


CSC
True Crime
True Entertainment
True Movies





Music channels



CSC
Chart Show TV
Chart Show Hits
Scuzz
Starz TV
The Vault





Children's channels



CSC
Pop
Pop Max
Tiny Pop





Former channels



More Than Movies
Movies4Men 2


CSC
The Amp
AnimeCentral
Bliss
BuzMuzik
Chart Shop TV
Flaunt
Flava
MinX
NME TV
Pop Girl
Pop Plus
Showcase TV
True Drama
True Movies 2





Miscellaneous



Sony Pictures Television
animaxtv.co.uk (VOD)








Baltics



Sony Channel
Sony Turbo





CEE



AXN

Adria
Hungary

AXN NowO


AXN Black
AXN Spin
AXN White


Viasat Hungary

Viasat 3
Viasat 6




Defunct
Animax
AXN Crime





Middle East



AXN Middle East

Arabic
English




Defunct
AXN Israel





pan-Africa



Sony Channel
Sony MAX
True Movies
Defunct
Animax














Other



Sony Pictures Digital

Sony Pictures Mobile


Sony Pictures Entertainment Japan
Sony Pictures Family Entertainment Group
Sony Pictures Studios
Madison Gate Records





Defunct



Columbia Pictures Television
Columbia TriStar Television
Merv Griffin Enterprises
ELP Communications








Online distribution platforms



Sony Entertainment Network
PlayStation Network (PlayStation Music
PlayStation Now
PlayStation Store
PlayStation Video
PlayStation Plus
PlayStation Vue)
PlayMemories Online
The Minisode Network
Crackle





Other businesses



Sony DADC
Sony Network Communications
Sony Professional Solutions
M3 (39.4%)
Sony/ATV Music Publishing
EMI Music Publishing (19%)
Vaio (4.9%)





Other assets



Sony Corporation of America (umbrella company in the US)
Other subsidiaries
List of acquisitions





Nonprofit organizations



Sony Institute of Higher Education Shohoku College





Other



History of Sony
Sony Toshiba IBM Center of Competence for the Cell Processor












v
t
e


AT&T




History



Corporate directors




Chairman, CEO and president



Randall L. Stephenson







Randall L. Stephenson – Chairman and CEO
Joyce M. Roché
Samuel A. DiPiazza, Jr.
Richard W. Fisher
Scott T. Ford
Glenn H. Hutchins
William E. Kennard
Michael B. McCallister
Beth E. Mooney
Matthew K. Rose
Cynthia B. Taylor
Laura D'Andrea Tyson
Geoffrey Y. Yang





Acquired companies



AT&T Corporation
Ameritech
BellSouth
DirecTV
Leap Wireless
Pacific Telesis
Southern New England Telecommunications
AT&T Mexico
Unefón





Bell Operating Companies



BellSouth Telecommunications
Illinois Bell
Indiana Bell
Michigan Bell
Nevada Bell
Ohio Bell
Pacific Bell
Southwestern Bell
Wisconsin Bell





Competitive local exchange carrier



SBC Telecom





Long distance services



Alascom
AT&T Corporation
BellSouth Long Distance
SBC Long Distance





AT&T Mobility
Cricket Wireless



Alltel
Ameritech Cellular
AT&T Wireless Services
BellSouth Mobility
BellSouth Mobility DCS
Centennial Wireless
Dobson Communications
Houston Cellular
Pacific Bell Wireless
Pacific Bell Wireless Northwest
SBC Wireless
SNET Mobility
Southwestern Bell Mobile Systems
Southwestern Bell Wireless





Internet services




IP services (VoIP, IPTV)



U-verse





Subscription Services



DirecTV Now





AT&T Internet Services



Ameritech Interactive Media Services
Pacific Bell Internet Services
Prodigy
Southwestern Bell Internet Services





Other ISPs



AT&T Business Internet
BellSouth FastAccess DSL





Directories



Anywho.com
Yellowpages.com








Television channels




AT&T Sports Networks



AT&T SportsNet

Northwest (40%)
Pittsburgh
Rocky Mountain
Southwest
Utah







Other



Game Show Network (42%)
MLB Network (16.67%)
Audience








Telephone directories

YP Holdings (47%)



AT&T Intellectual Property



AT&T Intellectual Property I
AT&T Intellectual Property II
AT&T Intellectual Property Marketing
AT&T Properties
Ameritech Properties





Research and development



AT&T Labs





Otter Media (50%)



Fullscreen

Rooster Teeth
McBeard


Ellation

VRV
Crunchyroll (Crunchyroll Manga)


Hello Sunshine
Gunpowder & Sky





Maritime Communication Services



Wireless Maritime Services










 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Game_Show_Network&oldid=809084751"					
Categories: American television networksDirecTVSony Pictures TelevisionTelevision channels and stations established in 1994English-language television stations in the United StatesSony subsidiariesGame showsHidden categories: Pages using citations with accessdate and no URLAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from September 2014 
