Abraham - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 
This is the latest accepted revision, reviewed on 1 December 2017.




					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

This article is about the biblical Abraham. For Islam, see Abraham in Islam. For the given name, see Abraham (given name). For other uses, see Abraham (disambiguation).
"Avram" redirects here. For other uses, see Avram (disambiguation).
"Avraham" redirects here. For people with the given name, see Avraham (given name). For people with the surname, see Avraham (surname).


Abraham



Abraham with the Three Angels by Dutch artist, Rembrandt



Personal


Born
Abram
Ur Kaśdim


Died
Hebron


Resting place
Cave of Machpelah
31°31′29″N 35°06′39″E﻿ / ﻿31.524744°N 35.110726°E﻿ / 31.524744; 35.110726


Spouse
Sarah (half-sister)
Hagar (concubine)
Keturah


Children
Ishmael
Isaac
Zimran
Jokshan
Medan
Midian
Ishbak
Shuah


Parents
Terah (father)


Relatives
Haran (brother)
Nahor (brother)
Lot (nephew)
Lot's wife (niece)


Influenced
Abrahamic religions


Abraham (Hebrew: אַבְרָהָם, Modern Avraham, Tiberian ʾAḇrāhām, Arabic: إبراهيم Ibrahim), originally Avram or Abram, is the common patriarch of the three Abrahamic religions.[1] In Judaism he is the founding father of the Covenant, the special relationship between the Jewish people and God; in Christianity, he is the prototype of all believers, Jewish or Gentile; and in Islam he is seen as a link in the chain of prophets that begins with Adam and culminates in Muhammad.[2]
The narrative in Genesis revolves around the themes of posterity and land. Abraham is called by God to leave the house of his father Terah and settle in the land originally given to Canaan, but which God now promises to Abraham and his progeny. Various candidates are put forward who might inherit the land after Abraham, and while promises are made to Ishmael about founding a great nation, Isaac, his son by his half-sister Sarah, inherits the promises to Abraham. Abraham purchases a tomb (the Cave of the Patriarchs) at Hebron to be Sarah's grave, thus establishing his right to the land, and in the second generation his heir Isaac is married to a woman from his own kin, thus ruling the Canaanites out of any inheritance. Abraham later marries Keturah and has six more sons, but on his death, when he is buried beside Sarah, it is Isaac who receives "all Abraham's goods", while the other sons receive only "gifts" (Genesis 25:5–8).[3]
The Abraham story cannot be definitively related to any specific time, and it is widely agreed that the patriarchal age, along with the exodus and the period of the judges, is a late literary construct that does not relate to any period in actual history.[4] A common hypothesis among scholars is that it was composed in the early Persian period (late 6th century BCE) as a result of tensions between Jewish landowners who had stayed in Judah during the Babylonian captivity and traced their right to the land through their "father Abraham", and the returning exiles who based their counter-claim on Moses and the Exodus tradition.[5]



Contents


1 Biblical account

1.1 Origins and calling
1.2 Sarai
1.3 Abram and Lot separate
1.4 Chedorlaomer
1.5 Covenant of the pieces
1.6 Hagar
1.7 Sarah
1.8 Three visitors
1.9 Abraham's plea
1.10 Abimelech
1.11 Ishmael
1.12 Isaac

1.12.1 Binding of Isaac


1.13 Later years


2 Historicity and origins

2.1 Historicity
2.2 Origins of the narrative


3 Religious traditions

3.1 Overview
3.2 Judaism
3.3 Christianity
3.4 Islam


4 In the arts

4.1 Painting and sculpture

4.1.1 Abraham in Christian iconography


4.2 Literature
4.3 Music


5 See also
6 References
7 Bibliography
8 External links



Biblical account[edit]




A painting of Abraham's departure by József Molnár


Origins and calling[edit]
Terah, the ninth in descent from Noah, was the father of three sons: Abram, Nahor, and Haran. Haran was the father of Lot (who was thus Abram's nephew), and died in his native city, Ur of the Chaldees. Abram married Sarah (Sarai), who was barren. Terah, with Abram, Sarai, and Lot, then departed for Canaan, but settled in a place named Haran, where Terah died at the age of 205.[Genesis 11:27–32] God had told Abram to leave his country and kindred and go to a land that he would show him, and promised to make of him a great nation, bless him, make his name great, bless them that bless him, and curse them who may curse him.[Genesis 12:1–3] Abram was 75 years old when he left Haran with his wife Sarai, his nephew Lot, and the substance and souls that they had acquired, and traveled to Shechem in Canaan.[Genesis 12:4–6]
Sarai[edit]




Abraham's Counsel to Sarai (watercolor c. 1896–1902 by James Tissot)


There was a severe famine in the land of Canaan, so that Abram and Lot and their households, traveled to Egypt. On the way Abram told Sarai to say that she was his sister, so that the Egyptians would not kill him.[Genesis 12:10–13] When they entered Egypt, the Pharaoh's officials praised Sarai's beauty to Pharaoh, and they took her into the palace and gave Abram goods in exchange. God afflicted Pharaoh and his household with plagues, which led Pharaoh to try to find out what was wrong.[Genesis 12:14–17] Upon discovering that Sarai was a married woman, Pharaoh demanded that Abram and Sarai leave.[Genesis 12:18–20]
Abram and Lot separate[edit]




Depiction of the separation of Abraham and Lot by Wenceslaus Hollar


Main article: Abraham and Lot's conflict
When they came back to the Bethel and Hai area, Abram's and Lot's sizable livestock herds occupied the same pastures. This became a problem for the herdsmen who were assigned to each family's cattle. The conflicts between herdsmen had become so troublesome that Abram suggested that Lot choose a separate area, either on the left hand (north) or on the right hand (south), that there be no conflict amongst brethren. But Lot chose to go the plain of Jordan where the land was well watered everywhere as far as Zoar, and he dwelled in the cities of the plain toward Sodom. Abram went south to Hebron and settled in the plain of Mamre, where he built another altar to worship God.[Genesis 13:1–18]
Chedorlaomer[edit]
Main article: Battle of Siddim




Meeting of Abraham and Melchizedek (painting c. 1464–1467 by Dieric Bouts the Elder)


During the rebellion of the Jordan River cities against Elam,[Genesis 14:1–9] Abram's nephew, Lot, was taken prisoner along with his entire household by the invading Elamite forces. The Elamite army came to collect the spoils of war, after having just defeated the king of Sodom's armies.[Genesis 14:8–12] Lot and his family, at the time, were settled on the outskirts of the Kingdom of Sodom which made them a visible target.[Genesis 13:12]
One person who escaped capture came and told Abram what happened. Once Abram received this news, he immediately assembled 318 trained servants. Abram's force headed north in pursuit of the Elamite army, who were already worn down from the Battle of Siddim. When they caught up with them at Dan, Abram devised a battle plan by splitting his group into more than one unit, and launched a night raid. Not only were they able to free the captives, Abram's unit chased and slaughtered the Elamite King Chedorlaomer at Hobah, just north of Damascus. They freed Lot, as well as his household and possessions, and recovered all of the goods from Sodom that had been taken.[Genesis 14:13–16]
Upon Abram's return, Sodom's king came out to meet with him in the Valley of Shaveh, the "king's dale". Also, Melchizedek king of Salem (Jerusalem), a priest of God Most High, brought out bread and wine and blessed Abram and God. Abram then gave Melchizedek a tenth of everything. The king of Sodom then offered to let Abram keep all the possessions if he would merely return his people. Abram refused any deal from the king of Sodom, other than the share to which his allies were entitled.[Genesis 14:17–24]
Covenant of the pieces[edit]




The vision of the Lord directing Abraham to count the stars (woodcut by Julius Schnorr von Carolsfeld from the 1860 Bible in Pictures)


See also: Covenant of the pieces
The voice of the Lord came to Abram in a vision and repeated the promise of the land and descendants as numerous as the stars. Abram and God made a covenant ceremony, and God told of the future bondage of Israel in Egypt. God described to Abram the land that his offspring would claim: the land of the Kenites, Kenizzites, Kadmonites, Hittites, Perizzites, Rephaims, Amorites, Canaanites, Girgashites, and Jebusites.[Genesis 15:1–21]
Hagar[edit]
See also: Hagar and Hagar in Islam




Abraham, Sarah and Hagar, imagined here in a Bible illustration from 1897.


Abram and Sarai tried to make sense of how he would become a progenitor of nations, because after 10 years of living in Canaan, no child had been born. Sarai then offered her Egyptian handmaiden, Hagar, to Abram with the intention that she would bear him a son. After Hagar found she was pregnant, she began to despise her mistress, Sarai. Therefore, Sarai mistreated Hagar, and Hagar fled away. En route an angel spoke with Hagar at the fountain in the way to Shur. He instructed her to return and that her son would be "a wild ass of a man; his hand shall be against every man, and every man's hand against him; and he shall dwell in the face of all his brethren." She was told to call her son Ishmael. Hagar then called God who spoke to her "El-roi", ("Thou God seest me:" KJV). From that day, the well was called Beer-lahai-roi, ("The well of him that liveth and seeth me." KJV margin). She then did as she was instructed by returning to her mistress in order to have her child. Abram was eighty-six years of age when Ishmael was born.[Genesis 16:4–16]
Sarah[edit]
Thirteen years later, when Abram was ninety-nine years of age, God declared Abram's new name: "Abraham" – "a father of many nations".[Genesis 17:5] Abraham then received the instructions for the covenant, of which circumcision was to be the sign.[Genesis 17:10–14] Then God declared Sarai's new name: "Sarah" and blessed her and told Abraham, "I will give thee a son also of her".[Genesis 17:15–16] But Abraham laughed, and "said in his heart, 'Shall a child be born unto him that is a hundred years old? and shall Sarah, that is ninety years old, bear?'"[Genesis 17:17] Immediately after Abraham's encounter with God, he had his entire household of men, including himself (age 99) and Ishmael (age 13), circumcised.[Genesis 17:22–27]
Three visitors[edit]




Abraham and the Three Angels (watercolor c. 1896–1902 by James Tissot)


Not long afterward, during the heat of the day, Abraham had been sitting at the entrance of his tent by the terebinths of Mamre. He looked up and saw three men in the presence of God. Then he ran and bowed to the ground to welcome them. Abraham then offered to wash their feet and fetch them a morsel of bread, to which they assented. Abraham rushed to Sarah's tent to order cakes made from choice flour, then he ordered a servant-boy to prepare a choice calf. When all was prepared, he set curds, milk and the calf before them, waiting on them, under a tree, as they ate.[Genesis 18:1–8]
One of the visitors told Abraham that upon his return next year, Sarah would have a son. While at the tent entrance, Sarah overheard what was said and she laughed to herself about the prospect of having a child at their ages. The visitor inquired of Abraham why Sarah laughed at bearing a child at her age, as nothing is too hard for God. Frightened, Sarah denied laughing.
Abraham's plea[edit]
Main articles: Sodom and Gomorrah and Lot (biblical person)




Abraham Sees Sodom in Flames (watercolor c. 1896–1902 by James Tissot)


After eating, Abraham and the three visitors got up. They walked over to the peak that overlooked the 'cities of the plain' to discuss the fate of Sodom and Gomorrah for their detestable sins that were so great, it moved God to action. Because Abraham's nephew was living in Sodom, God revealed plans to confirm and judge these cities. At this point, the two other visitors left for Sodom. Then Abraham turned to God and pleaded decrementally with Him (from fifty persons to less) that "if there were at least ten righteous men found in the city, would not God spare the city?" For the sake of ten righteous people, God declared that he would not destroy the city.[Genesis 18:17–33]
When the two visitors got to Sodom to conduct their report, they planned on staying in the city square. However, Abraham's nephew, Lot, met with them and strongly insisted that these two "men" stay at his house for the night. A rally of men stood outside of Lot's home and demanded that they bring out his guests so that they may "know" (v.5) them. However, Lot objected and offered his virgin daughters who had not "known" (v.8) man to the rally of men instead. They rejected that notion and sought to break down Lot's door to get to his male guests,[Genesis 19:1–9] thus confirming the wickedness of the city and portending their imminent destruction.[Genesis 19:12–13]
Early the next morning, Abraham went to the place where he stood before God. He "looked out toward Sodom and Gomorrah" and saw what became of the cities of the plain, where not even "ten righteous" (v.18:32) had been found, as "the smoke of the land went up as the smoke of a furnace."[Genesis 19:27–29]
Abimelech[edit]




The Caravan of Abraham (watercolor circa 1896–1902 by James Tissot)


See also: Endogamy and Wife–sister narratives in the Book of Genesis
Abraham settled between Kadesh and Shur in the land of the Philistines. While he was living in Gerar, Abraham openly claimed that Sarah was his sister. Upon discovering this news, King Abimelech had her brought to him. God then came to Abimelech in a dream and declared that taking her would result in death because she was a man's wife. Abimelech had not laid hands on her, so he inquired if he would also slay a righteous nation, especially since Abraham had claimed that he and Sarah were siblings. In response, God told Abimelech that he did indeed have a blameless heart and that is why he continued to exist. However, should he not return the wife of Abraham back to him, God would surely destroy Abimelech and his entire household. Abimelech was informed that Abraham was a prophet who would pray for him.[Genesis 20:1–7]
Early next morning, Abimelech informed his servants of his dream and approached Abraham inquiring as to why he had brought such great guilt upon his kingdom. Abraham stated that he thought there was no fear of God in that place, and that they might kill him for his wife. Then Abraham defended what he had said as not being a lie at all: "And yet indeed she is my sister; she is the daughter of my father, but not the daughter of my mother; and she became my wife."[Genesis 20:12] Abimelech returned Sarah to Abraham, and gave him gifts of sheep, oxen, and servants; and invited him to settle wherever he pleased in Abimelech's lands. Further, Abimelech gave Abraham a thousand pieces of silver to serve as Sarah's vindication before all. Abraham then prayed for Abimelech and his household, since God had stricken the women with infertility because of the taking of Sarah.[Genesis 20:8–18]
After living for some time in the land of the Philistines, Abimelech and Phicol, the chief of his troops, approached Abraham because of a dispute that resulted in a violent confrontation at a well. Abraham then reproached Abimelech due to his Philistine servant's aggressive attacks and the seizing of Abraham's well. Abimelech claimed ignorance of the incident. Then Abraham offered a pact by providing sheep and oxen to Abimelech. Further, to attest that Abraham was the one who dug the well, he also gave Abimelech seven ewes for proof. Because of this sworn oath, they called the place of this well: Beersheba. After Abimelech and Phicol headed back to Philistia, Abraham planted a grove in Beersheba and called upon "the name of the LORD, the everlasting God."[Genesis 21:22–34]
Ishmael[edit]
See also: Ishmael in Islam § The sacrifice
Ishmael was fourteen years old when Abraham's son Isaac was born to a different mother, Sarah. Sarah had finally borne her own child, even though she had passed her child-bearing period. When she found Ishmael teasing Isaac, Sarah told Abraham to send both Ishmael and Hagar away. She declared that Ishmael would not share in Isaac's inheritance. Abraham was greatly distressed by his wife's words and sought the advice of his God. God told Abraham not to be distressed but to do as his wife commanded. God reassured Abraham that "in Isaac shall seed be called to thee."[Genesis 21:12] He also said that Ishmael would make a nation, "because he is thy seed".[Genesis 21:9–13]
Early the next morning, Abraham brought Hagar and Ishmael out together. He gave her bread and water and sent them away. The two wandered in the wilderness of Beersheba until her bottle of water was completely consumed. In a moment of despair, she burst into tears. After God heard the boy's voice, an angel of the Lord confirmed to Hagar that he would become a great nation, and will be "living on his sword". A well of water then appeared so that it saved their lives. As the boy grew, he became a skilled archer living in the wilderness of Paran. Eventually his mother found a wife for Ishmael from her home country, the land of Egypt.[Genesis 21:14–21]
Isaac[edit]




Sacrifice of Isaac, by Caravaggio


As had been prophesied in Mamre the previous year,[Genesis 17:21] Sarah became pregnant and bore a son to Abraham, on the first anniversary of the covenant of circumcision. Abraham was "an hundred years old", when his son whom he named Isaac was born; and he circumcised him when he was eight days old.[Genesis] For Sarah, the thought of giving birth and nursing a child, at such an old age, also brought her much laughter, as she declared, "God hath made me to laugh, so that all that hear will laugh with me."[Genesis] Isaac continued to grow and on the day he was weaned, Abraham held a great feast to honor the occasion. During the celebration, however, Sarah found Ishmael mocking; an observation that would begin to clarify the birthright of Isaac.[Genesis 21:8–13]
Binding of Isaac[edit]




The Angel Hinders the Offering of Isaac by Rembrandt






Abraham about to sacrifice Isaac. From a 14th-century missal


Main article: Binding of Isaac
At some point in Isaac's youth, Abraham was commanded by God to offer his son up as a sacrifice in the land of Moriah. The patriarch traveled three days until he came to the mount that God told him of. He then commanded the servants to remain while he and Isaac proceeded alone into the mount. Isaac carried the wood upon which he would be sacrificed. Along the way, Isaac asked his father where the animal for the burnt offering was, to which Abraham replied "God will provide himself a lamb for a burnt offering". Just as Abraham was about to sacrifice his son, he was interrupted by the angel of the Lord, and he saw behind him a "ram caught in a thicket by his horns", which he sacrificed instead of his son. For his obedience he received another promise of numerous descendants and abundant prosperity. After this event, Abraham went to Beersheba.[Genesis 22:1–19]
Later years[edit]
Sarah died, and Abraham buried her in the Cave of the Patriarchs (the "cave of Machpelah"), near Hebron which he had purchased along with the adjoining field from Ephron the Hittite.[Genesis 23:1–20] After the death of Sarah, Abraham took another wife, a concubine named Keturah, by whom he had six sons: Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, and Shuah.[Genesis 25:1–6] According to the Bible, reflecting the change of his name to "Abraham" meaning "a father of many nations", Abraham is considered to be the progenitor of many nations mentioned in the Bible, among others the Israelites, Ishmaelites,[Genesis 25:12–18] Edomites,[Genesis 36:1–43]) Amalekites,[Genesis 36:12–16] Kenizzites,[Genesis 36:9–16] Midianites and Assyrians,[Genesis 25:1–5] and through his nephew Lot he was also related to the Moabites and Ammonites.[Genesis 19:35–38] Abraham lived to see his son marry Rebekah, (and to see the birth of his twin grandsons Jacob and Esau). He died at age 175, and was buried in the cave of Machpelah by his sons Isaac and Ishmael.[Genesis 25:7–10][1 Chronicles 1:32]
See also: Abraham's family tree
Historicity and origins[edit]
Historicity[edit]




Abraham's well at Beersheba


In the early and middle 20th century, leading archaeologists such as William F. Albright and biblical scholars such as Albrecht Alt believed that the patriarchs and matriarchs were either real individuals or believable composites of people who lived in the "patriarchal age", the 2nd millennium BCE. But, in the 1970s, new arguments concerning Israel's past and the biblical texts challenged these views; these arguments can be found in Thomas L. Thompson's The Historicity of the Patriarchal Narratives (1974), and John Van Seters' Abraham in History and Tradition (1975). Thompson, a literary scholar, based his argument on archaeology and ancient texts. His thesis centered on the lack of compelling evidence that the patriarchs lived in the 2nd millennium BCE, and noted how certain biblical texts reflected first millennium conditions and concerns. Van Seters examined the patriarchal stories and argued that their names, social milieu, and messages strongly suggested that they were Iron Age creations.[6] By the beginning of the 21st century, archaeologists had given up hope of recovering any context that would make Abraham, Isaac or Jacob credible historical figures.[7]
 Origins of the narrative[edit]
Abraham's name is apparently very ancient, as the tradition found in Genesis no longer understands its original meaning (probably "Father is exalted" – the meaning offered in Genesis 17:5, "Father of a multitude", is a popular etymology).[8] The story, like those of the other patriarchs, most likely had a substantial oral prehistory.[9] At some stage the oral traditions became part of the written tradition of the Pentateuch; a majority of scholars believe this stage belongs to the Persian period, roughly 520–320 BCE.[10] The mechanisms by which this came about remain unknown,[11] but there are currently two important hypotheses.[12] The first, called Persian Imperial authorisation, is that the post-Exilic community devised the Torah as a legal basis on which to function within the Persian Imperial system; the second is that Pentateuch was written to provide the criteria for who would belong to the post Exilic Jewish community and to establish the power structures and relative positions of its various groups, notably the priesthood and the lay "elders".[12]
Nevertheless, the completion of the Torah and its elevation to the centre of post-Exilic Judaism was as much or more about combining older texts as writing new ones – the final Pentateuch was based on existing traditions.[13] In Ezekiel 33:24, written during the Exile (i.e., in the first half of the 6th century BCE), Ezekiel, an exile in Babylon, tells how those who remained in Judah are claiming ownership of the land based on inheritance from Abraham; but the prophet tells them they have no claim because they do not observe Torah.[14] Isaiah 63:16 similarly testifies of tension between the people of Judah and the returning post-Exilic Jews (the "gôlâ"), stating that God is the father of Israel and that Israel's history begins with the Exodus and not with Abraham.[15] The conclusion to be inferred from this and similar evidence (e.g., Ezra-Nehemiah), is that the figure of Abraham must have been preeminent among the great landowners of Judah at the time of the Exile and after, serving to support their claims to the land in opposition to those of the returning exiles.[15]
Religious traditions[edit]


Abraham



Abraham and the Angels by Aert de Gelder (c. 1680–85)



First Patriarch


Venerated in



Judaism
Christianity
Islam
Baha'i Faith





Feast
9 October – Roman Catholicism


Overview[edit]
Abraham is given a high position of respect in three major world faiths, Judaism, Christianity and Islam. In Judaism he is the founding father of the Covenant, the special relationship between the Jewish people and God – a belief which gives the Jews a unique position as the Chosen People of God. In Christianity, the Apostle Paul taught that Abraham's faith in God – preceding the Mosaic law – made him the prototype of all believers, circumcised and uncircumcised. The Islamic prophet Muhammad claimed Abraham, whose submission to God constituted Islam as a "believer before the fact" and undercut Jewish claims to an exclusive relationship with God and the Covenant.[16]
Judaism[edit]
In Jewish tradition, Abraham is called Avraham Avinu (אברהם אבינו), "our father Abraham," signifying that he is both the biological progenitor of the Jews and the father of Judaism, the first Jew.[17] His story is read in the weekly Torah reading portions, predominantly in the parashot: Lech-Lecha (לֶךְ-לְךָ), Vayeira (וַיֵּרָא), Chayei Sarah (חַיֵּי שָׂרָה), and Toledot (תּוֹלְדֹת).
Christianity[edit]
Abraham does not loom so large in Christianity as he does in Judaism and Islam. It is Jesus as the Jewish Messiah who is central to Christianity, and the idea of a divine Messiah is what separates Christianity from the other two religions.[18] In Romans 4, Abraham's merit is less his obedience to the divine will than his faith in God's ultimate grace; this faith provides him the merit for God having chosen him for the covenant, and the covenant becomes one of faith, not obedience.[19]
The Roman Catholic Church calls Abraham "our father in Faith" in the Eucharistic prayer of the Roman Canon, recited during the Mass (see Abraham in the Catholic liturgy). He is also commemorated in the calendars of saints of several denominations: on 20 August by the Maronite Church, 28 August in the Coptic Church and the Assyrian Church of the East (with the full office for the latter), and on 9 October by the Roman Catholic Church and the Lutheran Church–Missouri Synod. In the introduction to his 15th-century translation of the Golden Legend's account of Abraham, William Caxton noted that this patriarch's life was read in church on Quinquagesima Sunday.[20] He is the patron saint of those in the hospitality industry.[21][page needed] The Eastern Orthodox Church commemorates him as the "Righteous Forefather Abraham", with two feast days in its liturgical calendar. The first time is on 9 October (for those churches which follow the traditional Julian Calendar, 9 October falls on 22 October of the modern Gregorian Calendar), where he is commemorated together with his nephew "Righteous Lot". The other is on the "Sunday of the Forefathers" (two Sundays before Christmas), when he is commemorated together with other ancestors of Jesus. Abraham is also mentioned in the Divine Liturgy of Saint Basil the Great, just before the Anaphora, and Abraham and Sarah are invoked in the prayers said by the priest over a newly married couple.
Islam[edit]
Main article: Abraham in Islam
Islam regards Abraham as a link in the chain of prophets that begins with Adam and culminates in Muhammad.[2] Ibrāhīm is mentioned in 35 chapters of the Quran, more often than any other biblical personage apart from Moses.[22] He is called both a hanif (monotheist) and muslim (one who submits),[23] and Muslims regard him as a prophet and patriarch, the archetype of the perfect Muslim, and the revered reformer of the Kaaba in Mecca.[24] Islamic traditions consider Ibrāhīm (Abraham) the first Pioneer of Islam (which is also called millat Ibrahim, the "religion of Abraham"), and that his purpose and mission throughout his life was to proclaim the Oneness of God. In Islam, Abraham holds an exalted position among the major prophets and he is referred to as "Ibrahim Khalilullah", meaning "Abraham the Friend [of Allah]".
In the arts[edit]
Painting and sculpture[edit]
Paintings on the life of Abraham tend to focus on only a few incidents: the sacrifice of Isaac; meeting Melchizedek; entertaining the three angels; Hagar in the desert; and a few others.[25] Additionally, Martin O'Kane, a professor of Biblical Studies, writes that the parable of Lazarus resting in the "Bosom of Abraham", as described in the Gospel of Luke, became an iconic image in Christian works.[26] According to O'Kane, artists often chose to divert from the common literary portrayal of Lazarus sitting next to Abraham at a banquet in Heaven and instead focus on the "somewhat incongruous notion of Abraham, the most venerated of patriarchs, holding a naked and vulnerable child in his bosom".[26] Several artists have been inspired by the life of Abraham, including Albrecht Dürer (1471–1528), Caravaggio (1573–1610), Donatello, Raphael, Philip van Dyck (Dutch painter, 1680–1753), and Claude Lorrain (French painter, 1600–1682). Rembrandt (Dutch, 1606–1669) created at least seven works on Abraham, Peter Paul Rubens (1577–1640) did several, Marc Chagall did at least five on Abraham, Gustave Doré (French illustrator, 1832–1883) did six, and James Tissot (French painter and illustrator, 1836–1902) did over twenty works on the subject.[25]




16th century plaster cast of a late Roman era Sacrifice of Isaac. The hand of God originally came down to restrain Abraham's knife (both are now missing).


The Sarcophagus of Junius Bassus depicts a set of biblical stories, including Abraham about to sacrifice Isaac. These sculpted scenes are on the outside of a marble Early Christian sarcophagus used for the burial of Junius Bassus. He died in 359. This sarcophagus has been described as "probably the single most famous piece of early Christian relief sculpture."[27] The sarcophagus was originally placed in or under Old St. Peter's Basilica, was rediscovered in 1597,[28] and is now below the modern basilica in the Museo Storico del Tesoro della Basilica di San Pietro (Museum of St. Peter's Basilica) in the Vatican. The base is approximately 4 × 8 × 4 feet. The Old Testament scenes depicted were chosen as precursors of Christ's sacrifice in the New Testament, in an early form of typology. Just to the right of the middle is Daniel in the lion's den and on the left is Abraham about to sacrifice Isaac.
George Segal created figural sculptures by molding plastered gauze strips over live models in his 1987 work Abraham's Farewell to Ishmael. The human condition was central to his concerns, and Segal used the Old Testament as a source for his imagery. This sculpture depicts the dilemma faced by Abraham when Sarah demanded that he expel Hagar and Ishmael. In the sculpture, the father's tenderness, Sarah's rage, and Hagar's resigned acceptance portray a range of human emotions. The sculpture was donated to the Miami Art Museum after the artist's death in 2000.[29]
Abraham in Christian iconography[edit]
Usually Abraham can be identified by the context of the image –  the meeting with Melchizedek, the three visitors, or the sacrifice of Isaac. In solo portraits a sword or knife may be used as his attribute, as in this statue by Gian Maria Morlaiter or this painting by Lorenzo Monaco. He always wears a gray or white beard.
As early as the beginning of the 3rd century, Christian art followed Christian typology in making the sacrifice of Isaac a foreshadowing of Christ's sacrifice on the cross and its memorial in the sacrifice of the Mass. See for example this 11th-century Christian altar engraved with Abraham's and other sacrifices taken to prefigure that of Christ in the Eucharist.[30]
Some early Christian writers interpreted the three visitors as the triune God. Thus in Santa Maria Maggiore, Rome, a 5th-century mosaic portrays only the visitors against a gold ground and puts semitransparent copies of them in the "heavenly" space above the scene. In Eastern Orthodox art the visit is the chief means by which the Trinity is pictured (example). Some images do not include Abraham and Sarah, like Andrei Rublev's Trinity, which shows only the three visitors as beardless youths at a table.[31]
Literature[edit]
Fear and Trembling (original Danish title: Frygt og Bæven) is an influential philosophical work by Søren Kierkegaard, published in 1843 under the pseudonym Johannes de silentio (John the Silent). Kierkegaard wanted to understand the anxiety that must have been present in Abraham when God asked him to sacrifice his son.[32]
Music[edit]
In 1994, Steve Reich released an opera named The Cave. The title refers to the Cave of the Patriarchs. The narrative of the opera is based on the story of Abraham and his immediate family as it is recounted in the various religious texts, and as it is understood by individual people from different cultures and religious traditions.
Bob Dylan's "Highway 61 Revisited"[33] is the title track for his 1965 album Highway 61 Revisited. In 2004, Rolling Stone magazine ranked the song as number 364 in their 500 Greatest Songs of All Time.[34] The song has five stanzas. In each stanza, someone describes an unusual problem that is ultimately resolved on Highway 61. In Stanza 1, God tells Abraham to "kill me a son". God wants the killing done on Highway 61. Abram, the original name of the biblical Abraham, is also the name of Dylan's own father.
See also[edit]


Judaism portal
Christianity portal
Islam portal



Abraham Path
Abraham's Gate at Tel Dan
Abraham in History and Tradition
Apocalypse of Abraham
Book of Abraham
Gathering of Israel
Genealogies of Genesis
Jewish Kabbalah
Pearl of Great Price
Table of prophets of Abrahamic religions
The evil Nimrod vs. the righteous Abraham
Zoroaster

References[edit]



^ McCarter 2000, p. 8.
^ a b Levenson 2012, p. PA8.
^ Ska 2009, pp. 26–31.
^ McNutt 1999, pp. 41–42.
^ Ska 2006, pp. 227–28, 260.
^ Moore & Kelle 2011, pp. 18–19.
^ Dever 2002, p. 98 and fn.2.
^ Thompson 2002, pp. 23–24.
^ Pitard 2001, p. 27.
^ Ska 2009, p. 260.
^ Enns 2012, p. 26.
^ a b Ska 2006, pp. 217, 227–28.
^ Carr & Conway 2010, p. 193.
^ Ska 2009, p. 43.
^ a b Ska 2009, p. 44.
^ Peters 2010, pp. 170–71.
^ Levenson 2012, p. 3.
^ Peters 2010, p. 171.
^ Firestone, Reuven, Encyclopedia of World History – Abraham (PDF)
^ Caxton, William. "Abraham". The Golden Legend. Internet Medieval Source Book. Retrieved 3 April 2014. 
^ Holweck 1924.
^ Peters 2003, p. PA9.
^ Levenson 2012, p. PA200.
^ Mecca, Martin Lings, c. 2004
^ a b For a very thorough online collection of links to artwork about Abraham see: Artwork Depicting Scenes from Abraham's Life. Retrieved 25 March 2011
^ a b Exum 2007, p. 135.
^ Journal of Early Christian Studies, Leonard Victor Rutgers, The Iconography of the Sarcophagus of Junius Bassus (review of Malbon book), Volume 1, Number 1, Spring 1993, pp. 94–96; for Janson it is also the "finest Early Christian sarcophagus".
^ or 1595, see Elsner, p. 86n.
^ Abraham's Farewell to Ishmael. George Segal. Miami Art Museum. Collections: Recent Acquisitions.. Retrieved 10 September 2014.
^ "Abraham the Patriarch in Art – Iconography and Literature". Christian Iconography – a project of Georgia Regents University. Retrieved 2014-04-18. 
^ Boguslawski, Alexander. "The Holy Trinity". Rollins.edu. Retrieved 3 April 2014. 
^ Kierkegaard 1980, pp. 155–56.
^ "Highway 61 Revisited". Retrieved 25 March 2011.
^ "Rolling Stone's 500 Greatest Songs of All Time". Archived from the original on 13 September 2008. Retrieved 8 August 2008. 



Bibliography[edit]


Andrews, Stephen J. (1990). "Abraham". In Mills, Watson E.; Bullard, Roger A. Mercer Dictionary of the Bible. Mercer University Press. p. 5. ISBN 978-0-86554-373-7. 
Barr, James (2013). Bible and Interpretation: The Collected Essays of James Barr. Oxford University Press. ISBN 9780199692897. 
Barr, James (1993). "Chronology". In Metzger, Bruce; Coogan, Michael D. The Oxford Companion to the Bible. Oxford University Press. ISBN 9780199743919. 
Carr, David M.; Conway, Colleen M. (2010). "Introduction to the Pentateuch". An Introduction to the Bible: Sacred Texts and Imperial Contexts. John Wiley & Sons. ISBN 9781405167383. 
Coogan, Michael (2008). The Old Testament: A Very Short Introduction. Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-530505-0. 
Davies, Philip R. (2008). Memories of Ancient Israel: An Introduction to Biblical History – Ancient and Modern. Westminster John Knox Press. ISBN 9780664232887. 
Dever, William G. (2002). What Did the Biblical Writers Know, and when Did They Know It?: What Archaeology Can Tell Us about the Reality of Ancient Israel. Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing. ISBN 978-0-8028-2126-3. 
Enns, Peter (2012). The Evolution of Adam. Baker Books. ISBN 978-1-58743-315-3. 
Exum, Jo Cheryl (2007). Retellings: The Bible in Literature, Music, Art and Film. Brill Publishers. ISBN 90-04-16572-X. 
Finkelstein, Israel; Silberman, Neil Asher (2002). The Bible Unearthed: Archaeology's New Vision of Ancient Israel and the Origin of Sacred Texts. Simon & Schuster. ISBN 0-7432-2338-1. 
Hatcher, W.S.; Martin, J.D. (1998). The Bahá'í Faith: The Emerging Global Religion. Bahá'í Publishing Trust. 
Hendel, Ronald (2005). Remembering Abraham : Culture, Memory, and History in the Hebrew Bible. Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-19-803959-X. 
Hill, Andrew E.; Walton, John H. (2010). A Survey of the Old Testament. Zondervan. pp. 2024–30. ISBN 978-0-310-59066-8. 
Holweck, Frederick George (1924). A Biographical Dictionary of the Saints. B. Herder Book Co. 
Hubbard, David Allan; Sanford La Sor, Frederic William; Bush (1996). Old Testament Survey: The Message, Form, and Background of the Old Testament. Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing. ISBN 0-8028-3788-3. 
Hughes, Jeremy (1990). Secrets of the Times. Continuum. 
Kierkegaard, Søren (1980). The Concept of Anxiety: A Simple Psychologically Orienting Deliberation on the Dogmatic Issue of Hereditary Sin. Princeton University Press. ISBN 0-691-02011-6. 
Levenson, Jon Douglas (2012). Inheriting Abraham: The Legacy of the Patriarch in Judaism, Christianity, and Islam. Princeton University Press. 
Ma'ani, Baharieh Rouhani (2008). Leaves of the Twin Divine Trees. Oxford, United Kingdom: George Ronald. ISBN 0-85398-533-2. 
May, Dann J (December 1993). "The Bahá'í Principle of Religious Unity and the Challenge of Radical Pluralism". University of North Texas, Denton, Texas: 102. 
McCarter, P. Kyle (2000). "Abraham". In Freedman, Noel David; Myers, Allen C. Eerdmans Dictionary of the Bible. Amsterdam University Press. pp. 8–10. ISBN 978-90-5356-503-2. 
McNutt, Paula M. (1999). Reconstructing the Society of Ancient Israel. Westminster John Knox Press. ISBN 978-0-664-22265-9. 
Mills, Watson E. (1998). Mercer Commentary on the Bible, Volume 1; Volume 8. Mercer University Press. ISBN 0-86554-506-5. 
Moore, Megan Bishop; Kelle, Brad E. (2011). Biblical History and Israel's Past. Eerdmans. ISBN 978-0-8028-6260-0. 
Peters, Francis Edwards (2003). Islam, a Guide for Jews and Christians. Princeton University Press. p. 9. ISBN 1400825482. 
Peters, Francis Edwards (2010). The Children of Abraham: Judaism, Christianity, Islam. Princeton University Press. ISBN 1-4008-2129-0. 
Pitard, Wayne T. (2001). "Before Israel". In Coogan, Michael D. The Oxford History of the Biblical World. Oxford University Press. p. 27. ISBN 978-0-19-513937-2. 
Shea, William H. (2000). "Chronology of the Old Testament". In Freedman, David Noel; Myers, Allen C. Eerdmans Dictionary of the Bible. Eerdmans. ISBN 9789053565032. 
Ska, Jean Louis (2006). Introduction to Reading the Pentateuch. Eisenbrauns. ISBN 978-1-57506-122-1. 
Ska, Jean Louis (2009). The Exegesis of the Pentateuch: Exegetical Studies and Basic Questions. Mohr Siebeck. pp. 30–31, 260. ISBN 978-3-16-149905-0.  link pp. 30–31
Taherzadeh, Adib (1984). "The Death of the Purest Branch". The Revelation of Bahá'u'lláh, Volume 3: 'Akka, The Early Years 1868–77. Oxford, UK: George Ronald. ISBN 0-85398-144-2. 
Thompson, Thomas L. (2002). The Historicity of the Patriarchal Narratives: The Quest for the Historical Abraham. Valley Forge, Pa: Trinity Press International. pp. 23–24, 36. ISBN 1-56338-389-6. 
Wilson, Marvin R. (1989). Our Father Abraham: Jewish Roots of the Christian Faith. Massachusetts: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing. ISBN 0-8028-0423-3. 


External links[edit]



Wikimedia Commons has media related to Abraham.





Wikiquote has quotations related to: Abraham





Wikisource has the text of the 1897 Easton's Bible Dictionary article Abraham.





Wikisource has the text of the 1911 Encyclopædia Britannica article Abraham.



"Abraham" at chabad.org.
Abraham smashes the idols (accessed 24 March 2011).
"Journey and Life of the Patriarch Abraham", a map dating back to 1590.
Kitáb-i-Íqán







v
t
e


Adam to David according to the Bible



Creation to Flood



Adam
Seth
Enos
Kenan
Mahalalel
Jared
Enoch
Methuselah
Lamech
Noah
Shem





Cain line



Adam
Cain
Enoch
Irad
Mehujael
Methusael
Lamech
Tubal-cain





Patriarchs after Flood



Arpachshad
Cainan
Shelah
Eber
Peleg
Reu
Serug
Nahor
Terah
Abraham
Isaac
Jacob





Tribe of Judah to Kingdom



Judah
Perez
Hezron
Ram
Amminadab
Nahshon
Salmon
Boaz
Obed
Jesse
David






Names in italics only appear in the Greek Septuagint version










v
t
e


Prophets in the Hebrew Bible



Pre-Patriarchal



Abel
Kenan
Enoch
Noah (in rabbinic literature)





Patriarchs / Matriarchs



Abraham
Isaac
Jacob
Levi
Joseph
Sarah
Rebecca
Rachel
Leah






Israelite prophets
in the Torah




Moses (in rabbinic literature)
Aaron
Miriam
Eldad and Medad
Phinehas






Mentioned in the
Former Prophets




Joshua
Deborah
Gideon
Eli
Elkanah
Hannah
Abigail
Samuel
Gad
Nathan
David
Solomon
Jeduthun
Ahijah
Shemaiah
Elijah
Elisha
Iddo
Hanani
Jehu
Micaiah
Jahaziel
Eliezer
Zechariah ben Jehoiada
Huldah





Major



Isaiah (in rabbinic literature)
Jeremiah
Ezekiel
Daniel (in rabbinic literature)





Minor



Hosea
Joel
Amos
Obadiah
Jonah (in rabbinic literature)
Micah
Nahum
Habakkuk
Zephaniah
Haggai
Zechariah
Malachi





Noahide



Beor
Balaam
Job (in rabbinic literature)





Other



Amoz
Beeri
Baruch
Agur
Uriah
Buzi
Mordecai
Esther (in rabbinic literature)
Oded
Azariah






Italics indicate persons whose status as prophets is not universally accepted.










v
t
e


Saints of the Catholic Church



Virgin Mary



Mother of God (Theotokos)
Immaculate Conception
Perpetual virginity
Assumption
Marian apparition

Guadalupe
Laus
Miraculous Medal
Lourdes
Fatima


Titles of Mary








Apostles



Andrew
Barnabas
Bartholomew
James of Alphaeus
James the Greater
John
Jude
Matthew
Matthias
Paul
Peter
Philip
Simon
Thomas





Archangels



Gabriel
Michael
Raphael





Confessors



Anatolius
Chariton the Confessor
Edward the Confessor
Maximus the Confessor
Michael of Synnada
Paphnutius the Confessor
Paul I of Constantinople
Salonius
Theophanes the Confessor





Disciples



Apollos
Mary Magdalene
Priscilla and Aquila
Silvanus
Stephen
Timothy
Titus
Seventy disciples





Doctors







Gregory the Great
Ambrose
Augustine of Hippo
Jerome
John Chrysostom
Basil of Caesarea
Gregory of Nazianzus
Athanasius of Alexandria
Cyril of Alexandria
Cyril of Jerusalem
John of Damascus
Bede the Venerable
Ephrem the Syrian
Thomas Aquinas
Bonaventure
Anselm of Canterbury
Isidore of Seville
Peter Chrysologus
Leo the Great
Peter Damian
Bernard of Clairvaux
Hilary of Poitiers
Alphonsus Liguori
Francis de Sales
Peter Canisius
John of the Cross
Robert Bellarmine
Albertus Magnus
Anthony of Padua
Lawrence of Brindisi
Teresa of Ávila
Catherine of Siena
Thérèse of Lisieux
John of Ávila
Hildegard of Bingen
Gregory of Narek








Evangelists



Matthew
Mark
Luke
John





Church
fathers



Alexander of Alexandria
Alexander of Jerusalem
Ambrose of Milan
Anatolius
Athanasius of Alexandria
Augustine of Hippo
Caesarius of Arles
Caius
Cappadocian Fathers
Clement of Alexandria
Clement of Rome
Cyprian of Carthage
Cyril of Alexandria
Cyril of Jerusalem
Damasus I
Desert Fathers
Desert Mothers
Dionysius of Alexandria
Dionysius of Corinth
Dionysius
Ephrem the Syrian
Epiphanius of Salamis
Fulgentius of Ruspe
Gregory the Great
Gregory of Nazianzus
Gregory of Nyssa
Hilary of Poitiers
Hippolytus of Rome
Ignatius of Antioch
Irenaeus of Lyons
Isidore of Seville
Jerome of Stridonium
John Chrysostom
John of Damascus
Maximus the Confessor
Melito of Sardis
Quadratus of Athens
Papias of Hierapolis
Peter Chrysologus
Polycarp of Smyrna
Theophilus of Antioch
Victorinus of Pettau
Vincent of Lérins
Zephyrinus





Martyrs



Canadian Martyrs
Carthusian Martyrs
Forty Martyrs of England and Wales
Four Crowned Martyrs
Great Martyr
The Holy Innocents
Irish Martyrs
Joan of Arc
Lübeck martyrs
Korean Martyrs
Martyrology
Martyrs of Albania
Martyrs of China
Martyrs of Japan
Martyrs of Laos
Martyrs of Natal
Martyrs of Otranto
Martyrs of the Spanish Civil War
Maximilian Kolbe
Perpetua and Felicity
Saints of the Cristero War
Stephen
Three Martyrs of Chimbote
Uganda Martyrs
Vietnamese Martyrs





Patriarchs



Adam
Abel
Abraham
Isaac
Jacob
Joseph
Joseph (father of Jesus)
David
Noah
Solomon
Matriarchs





Popes



Adeodatus I
Adeodatus II
Adrian III
Agapetus I
Agatho
Alexander I
Anacletus
Anastasius I
Anicetus
Anterus
Benedict II
Boniface I
Boniface IV
Caius
Callixtus I
Celestine I
Celestine V
Clement I
Cornelius
Damasus I
Dionysius
Eleuterus
Eugene I
Eusebius
Eutychian
Evaristus
Fabian
Felix I
Felix III
Felix IV
Gelasius I
Gregory I
Gregory II
Gregory III
Gregory VII
Hilarius
Hormisdas
Hyginus
Innocent I
John I
John XXIII
John Paul II
Julius I
Leo I
Leo II
Leo III
Leo IV
Leo IX
Linus
Lucius I
Marcellinus
Marcellus I
Mark
Martin I
Miltiades
Nicholas I
Paschal I
Paul I
Peter
Pius I
Pius V
Pius X
Pontian
Sergius I
Silverius
Simplicius
Siricius
Sixtus I
Sixtus II
Sixtus III
Soter
Stephen I
Stephen IV
Sylvester I
Symmachus
Telesphorus
Urban I
Victor I
Vitalian
Zachary
Zephyrinus
Zosimus





Prophets



Agabus
Amos
Anna
Baruch ben Neriah
David
Dalua
Elijah
Ezekiel
Habakkuk
Haggai
Hosea
Isaiah
Jeremiah
Job
Joel
John the Baptist
Jonah
Judas Barsabbas
Malachi
Melchizedek
Micah
Moses
Nahum
Obadiah
Samuel
Seven Maccabees and their mother
Simeon
Zechariah (prophet)
Zechariah (NT)
Zephaniah





Virgins



Agatha of Sicily
Agnes of Rome
Bernadette Soubirous
Brigid of Kildare
Cecilia
Clare of Assisi
Eulalia of Mérida
Euphemia
Genevieve
Kateri Tekakwitha
Lucy of Syracuse
Maria Goretti
Mother Teresa
Narcisa de Jesús
Rose of Lima





See also



Military saints
Virtuous pagan








 Catholicism portal
 Saints portal









Authority control



WorldCat Identities
VIAF: 89660956
LCCN: n79065663
ISNI: 0000 0000 9650 0173
GND: 118500201
SELIBR: 292616
BNF: cb165820767 (data)











 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Abraham&oldid=812997256"					
Categories: Prophets of the Hebrew BibleAbrahamAngelic visionariesBiblical patriarchsChristian saints from the Old TestamentFounders of religionsProphets of IslamLech-LechaVayeiraHidden categories: Use dmy dates from April 2012Pages using deprecated image syntaxWikipedia articles needing page number citations from May 2017Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with SELIBR identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiers 
