Ibn Khaldun - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Ibn Khaldun



Statue at the Cathedral of St. Vincent de Paul, Avenue Habib Bourguiba, Tunis



Born
27 May 1332
Tunis, Hafsid Sultanate of Ifriqiya


Died
17 March 1406 (1406-03-18) (aged 73)
Cairo, Mamluk Sultanate of Egypt


Region
Tunisia


Religion
Islam


Denomination
Sunni[1]


Jurisprudence
Maliki[2]


Creed
Ash'ari[3]


Main interest(s)
Historiography
Sociology
Economics
Demography
Political science


Notable idea(s)
Cyclical theory of Empires, Asabiyyah, Economic Growth Theory,[4] Supply and Demand Theory [5]




Influenced by

Ibn Jarir, Ibn Hazm, At-Turtushi,[6] Ibn Abi Zar, Muhammad ibn Zakarīya Rāzi







Influenced

Ibn al-Khatib, Ibn al-Azraq, Ibn al-Sakkak, Al-Maqrizi








Ibn Khaldun (/ˈɪbən kælˈduːn/; Arabic: أبو زيد عبد الرحمن بن محمد بن خلدون الحضرمي‎, Abū Zayd ‘Abd ar-Raḥmān ibn Muḥammad ibn Khaldūn al-Ḥaḍramī; 27 May 1332 – 17 March 1406) was an Arab historiographer and historian.[8] He is claimed as a forerunner of the modern disciplines of sociology and demography.[n 1][9][n 2]
He is best known for his book, the Muqaddimah or Prolegomena ("Introduction"). The book influenced 17th-century Ottoman historians like Kâtip Çelebi, Ahmed Cevdet Pasha and Mustafa Naima who used the theories in the book to analyze the growth and decline of the Ottoman Empire.[10] 19th-century European scholars also acknowledged the significance of the book and considered Ibn Khaldun as one of the greatest philosophers of the Middle Ages.[11]



Contents


1 Biography

1.1 Education
1.2 Early years in Tunis, Fez, Tlemcen and Granada
1.3 Last years in Egypt


2 Works

2.1 Kitāb al-ʻIbar
2.2 Minor works


3 Legacy
4 Works
5 See also
6 Notes and references
7 Further reading
8 External links

8.1 English
8.2 Non-English





Biography[edit]




Ibn Khaldun Life-size bronze bust sculpture of Ibn Khaldun that is part of the collection at the Arab American National Museum (Catalog Number 2010.02). Commissioned by The Tunisian Community Center and Created by Patrick Morelli of Albany, NY in 2009. It was inspired by the statue of Ibn Khaldun erected at the Avenue Habib Bourguiba in Tunis.[12]


Ibn Khaldun's life is relatively well-documented, as he wrote an autobiography (التعريف بابن خلدون ورحلته غربا وشرقا, at-Taʻrīf bi-ibn Khaldūn wa-Riḥlatih Gharban wa-Sharqan[13]) in which numerous documents regarding his life are quoted word-for-word.
Abdurahman bin Muhammad bin Muhammad bin Muhammad bin Al-Hasan bin Jabir bin Muhammad bin Ibrahim bin Abdurahman bin Ibn Khaldun, generally known as "Ibn Khaldūn" after a remote ancestor, was born in Tunis in AD 1332 (732 A.H.) into an upper-class Andalusian family of Arab descent,[8] the family's ancestor was, according to him, a Yemenite Arab who shared kinship with Waíl ibn Hujr, a companion of the Islamic Prophet Muhammad. His family, which held many high offices in Andalusia, had emigrated to Tunisia after the fall of Seville to the Reconquista in AD 1248. Under the Tunisian Hafsid dynasty some of his family held political office; Ibn Khaldūn's father and grandfather however withdrew from political life and joined a mystical order. His brother, Yahya Khaldun, was also a historian who wrote a book on the Abdalwadid dynasty, and who was assassinated by a rival for being the official historiographer of the court.[14]
In his autobiography, Khaldun traces his descent back to the time of Muhammad through an Arab tribe from Yemen, specifically the Hadhramaut, which came to the Iberian Peninsula in the eighth century at the beginning of the Islamic conquest. In his own words: "And our ancestry is from Hadhramaut, from the Arabs of Yemen, via Wa'il ibn Hujr also known as Hujr ibn 'Adi, from the best of the Arabs, well-known and respected." (p. 2429, Al-Waraq's edition). However, the biographer Mohammad Enan questions his claim, suggesting that his family may have been Muladis who pretended to be of Arab origin in order to gain social status.[15] Enan also mentions a well documented past tradition, concerning certain Berber groups, whereby they delusively "aggrandize" themselves with some Arab ancestry. The motive of such an invention was always the desire for political and societal ascendancy. Some speculate this of the Khaldun family; they elaborate that Ibn Khaldun himself was the product of the same Berber ancestry as the native majority of his birthplace. A point supporting this posits that Ibn Khaldun's unusual written focus on, and admiration for Berbers reveals a deference towards them that is born of a vested interest in preserving them in the realm of conscious history. Islamic scholar Muhammad Hozien contends that "The false [Berber] identity would be valid however at the time that Ibn Khaldun’s ancestors left Andulsia and moved to Tunisia they did not change their claim to Arab ancestry. Even in the times when Berbers were ruling, the reigns of Al-Marabats and al-Mowahids, et. al. The Ibn Khalduns did not reclaim their Berber heritage".[16] Khaldun's tracing of his own genealogy and surname are thought to be the strongest indication of Arab Yemenite ancestry.[8][17]
Education[edit]
His family's high rank enabled Ibn Khaldun to study with the best teachers in Maghreb. He received a classical Islamic education, studying the Qur'an which he memorized by heart, Arabic linguistics, the basis for an understanding of the Qur'an, hadith, sharia (law) and fiqh (jurisprudence). He received certification (ijazah) for all these subjects.[18] The mathematician and philosopher, Al-Abili of Tlemcen, introduced him to mathematics, logic and philosophy, where he above all studied the works of Averroes, Avicenna, Razi and Tusi. At the age of 17, Ibn Khaldūn lost both his parents to the Black Death, an intercontinental epidemic of the plague that hit Tunis in 1348–1349.
Following family tradition, Ibn Khaldūn strove for a political career. In the face of a tumultuous political situation in North Africa, this required a high degree of skill developing and dropping alliances prudently, to avoid falling with the short-lived regimes of the time.[citation needed] Ibn Khaldūn's autobiography is the story of an adventure, in which he spends time in prison, reaches the highest offices and falls again into exile.[citation needed]
Early years in Tunis, Fez, Tlemcen and Granada[edit]




Birth home of Ibn Khaldoun at Tunis







The Mosque where Ibn Khaldoun used to take his lessons






Ibn Khaldun on the 10 Tunisian dinar bill


At the age of 20, he began his political career at the Chancellery of the Tunisian ruler Ibn Tafrakin with the position of Kātib al-'Alāmah, which consisted of writing in fine calligraphy the typical introductory notes of official documents. In 1352, Abū Ziad, the Sultan of Constantine, marched on Tunis and defeated it. Ibn Khaldūn, in any case unhappy with his respected but politically meaningless position, followed his teacher Abili to Fez. Here the Marinid sultan Abū Inan Fares I appointed him as a writer of royal proclamations, which didn't prevent Ibn Khaldūn from scheming against his employer. In 1357 this brought the 25-year-old a 22-month prison sentence. Upon the death of Abū Inan in 1358, the vizier al-Hasān ibn-Umar granted him freedom and reinstated him in his rank and offices. Ibn Khaldūn then schemed against Abū Inan's successor, Abū Salem Ibrahim III, with Abū Salem's exiled uncle, Abū Salem. When Abū Salem came to power, he gave Ibn Khaldūn a ministerial position, the first position which corresponded with Ibn Khaldūn's ambitions.
The treatment Ibn Khaldun received after the fall of Abū Salem through Ibn-Amar ʻAbdullah, a friend of Ibn Khaldūn's, was not to his liking, he received no significant official position. At the same time, Amar successfully prevented Ibn Khaldūn – whose political skills he was well aware of – from allying with the Abd al-Wadids in Tlemcen. Ibn Khaldūn therefore decided to move to Granada. He could be sure of a positive welcome there, since at Fez he had helped the Sultan of Granada, the Nasrid Muhammad V, regain power from his temporary exile. In 1364 Muhammad entrusted him with a diplomatic mission to the King of Castile, Pedro the Cruel, to endorse a peace treaty. Ibn Khaldūn successfully carried out this mission, and politely declined Pedro's offer to remain at his court and have his family's Spanish possessions returned to him.
In Granada, Ibn Khaldūn quickly came into competition with Muhammad's vizier, Ibn al-Khatib, who viewed the close relationship between Muhammad and Ibn Khaldūn with increasing mistrust. Ibn Khaldūn tried to shape the young Muhammad into his ideal of a wise ruler, an enterprise which Ibn al-Khatib thought foolish and a danger to peace in the country – and history proved him right. At al-Khatib's instigation, Ibn Khaldūn was eventually sent back to North Africa. Al-Khatib himself was later accused by Muhammad of having unorthodox philosophical views, and murdered, despite an attempt by Ibn Khaldūn to intercede on behalf of his old rival.
In his autobiography, Ibn Khaldūn tells us little about his conflict with Ibn al-Khatib and the reasons for his departure. The orientalist Muhsin Mahdi interprets this as showing that Ibn Khaldūn later realised that he had completely misjudged Muhammad V.
Back in Africa, the Hafsid sultan of Bougie, Abū ʻAbdallāh, (who had been his companion in prison) received him with great enthusiasm, and made Ibn Khaldūn his prime minister. During this period, Ibn Khaldūn carried out a daring mission to collect taxes among the local Berber tribes. After the death of Abū ʻAbdallāh in 1366, Ibn Khaldūn changed sides once again and allied himself with the Sultan of Tlemcen, Abū l-Abbas. A few years later he was taken prisoner by Abu Faris Abdul Aziz, who had defeated the sultan of Tlemcen and seized the throne. He then entered a monastic establishment, and occupied himself with scholastic duties, until in 1370 he was sent for to Tlemcen by the new sultan. After the death of ʻAbdu l-Azīz, he resided at Fez, enjoying the patronage and confidence of the regent.
Ibn Khaldūn's political skills, above all his good relationship with the wild Berber tribes, were in high demand among the North African rulers, whereas he himself began to tire of politics and constant switching of allegiances. In 1375, sent by Abū Hammu, the ʻAbdu l Wadid Sultan of Tlemcen, on a mission to the Dawadida Arabs tribes of Biskra. After his return to the West Ibn Khaldūn sought refuge with one of the Berber tribes, in the west of Algeria, in the town of Qalat Ibn Salama. He lived there for over three years under their protection, taking advantage of his seclusion to write the Muqaddimah "Prolegomena", the introduction to his planned history of the world. In Ibn Salama, however, he lacked the necessary texts to complete the work. As a result, in 1378, he returned to his native Tunis, which in the mean time had been conquered by Abū l-Abbas, who took Ibn Khaldūn back into his service. There he devoted himself almost exclusively to his studies and completed his history of the world. His relationship with Abū l-Abbas remained strained, as the latter questioned his loyalty. This was brought into sharp contrast after Ibn Khaldūn presented him with a copy of the completed history omitting the usual panegyric to the ruler. Under pretence of going on the Hajj to Mecca – something a Muslim ruler could not simply refuse permission for – Ibn Khaldūn was able to leave Tunis and sail to Alexandria.
Last years in Egypt[edit]




Ibn Khaldoun Statue and Square, Mohandessin, Cairo


Ibn Khaldun said of Egypt, "He who has not seen it does not know the power of Islam."[this quote needs a citation] While other Islamic regions had to cope with border wars and inner strife, under the Mamluks Egypt experienced a period of economic prosperity and high culture. However, even in Egypt, where Ibn Khaldūn lived out his days, he could not stay out of politics completely. In 1384 the Egyptian Sultan, al-Malik udh-Dhahir Barquq, made him Professor of the Qamhiyyah Madrasah, and grand Qadi of the Maliki school of fiqh (one of four schools, the Maliki school was widespread primarily in West Africa). His efforts at reform encountered resistance, however, and within a year he had to resign his judgeship. A contributory factor to his decision to resign may have been the heavy personal blow that struck him in 1384, when a ship carrying his wife and children sank off the coast of Alexandria. Ibn Khaldun now decided to complete the pilgrimage to Mecca after all.
After his return in May 1388, Ibn Khaldūn concentrated more strongly on a purely educational function at various Cairo madrasas. At court he fell out of favor for a time, as during revolts against Barquq he had – apparently under duress – together with other Cairo jurists issued a Fatwa against Barquq. Later relations with Barquq returned to normal, and he was once again named the Maliki qadi. Altogether he was called six times to this high office, which for various reasons he never held long.
In 1401, under Barquq's successor, his son Faraj, Ibn Khaldūn took part in a military campaign against the Mongol conqueror Timur, who besieged Damascus. Ibn Khaldūn cast doubt upon the viability of the venture and didn't really want to leave Egypt. His doubts were vindicated, as the young and inexperienced Faraj, concerned about a revolt in Egypt, left his army to its own devices in Syria and hurried home. Ibn Khaldūn remained at the besieged city for seven weeks, being lowered over the city wall by ropes in order to negotiate with Timur, in a historic series of meetings which he reports extensively in his autobiography. Timur questioned him in detail about conditions in the lands of the Maghreb; at his request, Ibn Khaldūn even wrote a long report about it. As he recognized the intentions behind this, he did not hesitate, on his return to Egypt, to compose an equally extensive report on the history of the Tatars, together with a character study of Timur, sending these to the Merinid rulers in Fez (Maghreb).
Ibn Khaldūn spent the following five years in Cairo completing his autobiography and his history of the world and acting as teacher and judge. During this time, he is alleged to have joined an underground party named Rijal Hawa Rijal. Their reform oriented ideals attracted the attention of local political authorities and the elderly Ibn Khaldun was placed under arrest. He died on 17 March 1406, one month after his sixth selection for the office of the Maliki qadi (Judge).
Works[edit]
Kitāb al-ʻIbar[edit]
Ibn Khaldūn main work is the Kitāb al-ʻIbar or "Book of Lessons" (full title: Kitāb al-ʻIbar wa-Dīwān al-Mubtadaʼ wa-l-Khabar fī Taʼrīkh al-ʻArab wa-l-Barbar wa-Man ʻĀṣarahum min Dhawī ash-Shaʼn al-Akbār "Book of Lessons, Record of Beginnings and Events in the History of the Arabs and the Berbers and Their Powerful Contemporaries"), originally conceived as a history of the Berbers but later expanded in focus to a universal history.
The Kitāb al-ʻIbār is divided into seven books, the first of which, the Muqaddimah or "Introduction", can be considered a separate work. Books two to five cover the history of mankind up to the time of Ibn Khaldūn. Books six and seven cover the history of the Berber peoples and the Maghreb. The work is an important source for Berber history, although Ibn Khaldun in parts relied on poor source material (e.g. the Rawḍ al-Qirṭās). His historiographical work has been criticised for often presenting only a synthesis of multiple (sometimes contradictory) sources where a more careful historian such as ar-Raqīq or al-Mālikī would always give the original texts before pronouncing an opinion.[19]
Concerning the discipline of sociology, he conceived a theory of social conflict. He developed the dichotomy of sedentary life versus nomadic life as well as the concept of a "generation", and the inevitable loss of power that occurs when desert warriors conquer a city. Following a contemporary Arab scholar, Sati' al-Husri, the Muqaddimah may be read as a sociological work. Topics dealt with in this work include politics, urban life, economics, and knowledge. The work is based around Ibn Khaldun's central concept of 'aṣabiyyah, which has been translated as "social cohesion", "group solidarity", or "tribalism". This social cohesion arises spontaneously in tribes and other small kinship groups; it can be intensified and enlarged by a religious ideology. Ibn Khaldun's analysis looks at how this cohesion carries groups to power but contains within itself the seeds – psychological, sociological, economic, political – of the group's downfall, to be replaced by a new group, dynasty or empire bound by a stronger (or at least younger and more vigorous) cohesion. Ibn Khaldun has been cited as a racist, but his theories on the rise and fall of empires have no racial component, and this reading of his work has been claimed to be the result of mistranslations.[20]
Perhaps the most frequently cited observation drawn from Ibn Khaldūn's work is the notion that when a society becomes a great civilization (and, presumably, the dominant culture in its region), its high point is followed by a period of decay. This means that the next cohesive group that conquers the diminished civilization is, by comparison, a group of barbarians. Once the barbarians solidify their control over the conquered society, however, they become attracted to its more refined aspects, such as literacy and arts, and either assimilate into or appropriate such cultural practices. Then, eventually, the former barbarians will be conquered by a new set of barbarians, who will repeat the process. One contemporary reader of Khaldun has read this as an early business cycle theory, though set in the historical circumstances of the mature Islamic empire.[who?][dubious – discuss][citation needed]
Ibn Khaldun outlines an early (possibly even the earliest) example of political economy[dubious – discuss]. He describes the economy as being composed of value-adding processes; that is, labour and skill is added to techniques and crafts and the product is sold at a higher value[dubious – discuss]. He also made the distinction between "profit" and "sustenance", in modern political economy terms, surplus and that required for the reproduction of classes respectively. He also calls for the creation of a science to explain society and goes on to outline these ideas in his major work the Muqaddimah.
Ibn Khaldun also emphasized on the Islamic Monetary System that the currency or money should have intrinsic value. And it should be made up of Gold and Silver i.e. Gold dinar and Silver Dirham. He also emphasized that the weight and purity of these coins should be strictly followed. As the weight of one dinar should be one mithqal i.e. equal the weight of 72 grains of barley (equals to almost 4.25 grams) and the weight of 7 dinar should be equal to weight of 10 Dirhams (which equal 7/10 of Mithqal or 2.975 grams). And according to him these coins must be used in laws concerning the charity tax (Zakat), marriage (fees), fixed legal fines, and other things.[21]
Minor works[edit]
From other sources we know of several other works, primarily composed during the time he spent in North Africa and Al-Andalus. His first book, Lubābu l-Muhassal, a commentary on the Islamic theology of Fakhr al-Din al-Razi, was written at the age of 19 under the supervision of his teacher al-Ābilī in Tunis. A work on Sufism, Shifā'u l-Sā'il, was composed around 1373 in Fes, Morocco. Whilst at the court of Muhammed V, Sultan of Granada, Ibn Khaldūn composed a work on logic, ʻallaqa li-s-Sulṭān.
Legacy[edit]




A Laffer Curve with a maximum revenue point at around a 70%, as estimated by Trabandt and Uhlig (2009).[22] Laffer cites Ibn Khaldun's observation that "at the beginning of the dynasty, taxation yields a large revenue from small assessments. At the end of the dynasty, taxation yields a small revenue from large assessments." as a predecessor.[23][24]


Ibn Khaldun was first brought to the attention of the Western world in 1697, when a biography of him appeared in Barthélemy d'Herbelot de Molainville's Bibliothèque Orientale. Ibn Khaldun began gaining more attention from 1806, when Silvestre de Sacy's Chrestomathie Arabe included his biography together with a translation of parts of the Muqaddimah as the Prolegomena.[25] In 1816, de Sacy again published a biography with a more detailed description on the Prolegomena.[26] More details on and partial translations of the Prolegomena emerged over the years until the complete Arabic edition was published in 1858. Since then, the work of Ibn Khaldun has been extensively studied in the Western world with special interest.[27]

British historian Arnold J. Toynbee called the Muqaddimah "a philosophy of history which is undoubtedly the greatest work of its kind that has ever yet been created by any mind in any time or place."[28]
The British philosopher Robert Flint wrote the following on Ibn Khaldun: "as a theorist of history he had no equal in any age or country until Vico appeared, more than three hundred years later. Plato, Aristotle, and Augustine were not his peers, and all others were unworthy of being even mentioned along with him".
Abderrahmane Lakhsassi writes: "No historian of the Maghreb since and particularly of the Berbers can do without his historical contribution."[29]
The British philosopher-anthropologist Ernest Gellner considered Ibn Khaldun's definition of government, "an institution which prevents injustice other than such as it commits itself", the best in the history of political theory.[30]
Egon Orowan, who termed the concept of socionomy, was influenced by Ibn Khaldun's ideas on the evolution of societies.[31]
Arthur Laffer, whom the Laffer curve is named after, noted that, among others, some of Ibn Khaldun's ideas precede his own.[32]
In 2004, the Tunisian Community Center launched the first Ibn Khaldun Award to recognize a Tunisian/American high achiever whose work reflects Ibn Khaldun's ideas of kinship and solidarity. The Award was named after Ibn Khaldun for him being universally acknowledged as the Father of Sociology and also for the convergence of his ideas with the organization's objectives and programs.
In 2006, the Atlas Economic Research Foundation launched an annual essay contest [1] for students named in Ibn Khaldun's honor. The theme of the contest is "how individuals, think tanks, universities and entrepreneurs can influence government policies to allow the free market to flourish and improve the lives of its citizens based on Islamic teachings and traditions."[this quote needs a citation]
In 2006, Spain commemorated the 600th anniversary of the death of Ibn Khaldun. [2]

Works[edit]

Ibn Khaldun. 1951 التعريف بإبن خلدون ورحلته غربا وشرقا Al-Taʻrīf bi Ibn-Khaldūn wa Riħlatuhu Għarbān wa Sharqān. Published by Muħammad ibn-Tāwīt at-Tanjī. Cairo (Autobiography in Arabic).
Ibn Khaldūn. 1958 The Muqaddimah : An introduction to history. Translated from the Arabic by Franz Rosenthal. 3 vols. New York: Princeton.
Ibn Khaldūn. 1967 The Muqaddimah : An introduction to history. Trans. Franz Rosenthal, ed. N.J. Dawood. (Abridged).

See also[edit]


Asabiyyah
Chanakya
Egon Orowan
List of Muslim historians
Historiography of early Islam
Laffer curve
Muqaddimah
Science in medieval Islam
Social cycle theory
Averroes
Abulcasis
Ibn Arabi
Ibn Tufail


Notes and references[edit]

Notes



^

"...regarded by some Westerners as the true father of historiography and sociology".[33]
"Ibn Khaldun has been claimed the forerunner of a great number of European thinkers, mostly sociologists, historians, and philosophers".(Boulakia 1971)
"The founding father of Eastern Sociology".[34]
"This grand scheme to find a new science of society makes him the forerunner of many of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries system-builders such as Vico, Comte and Marx." "As one of the early founders of the social sciences...".[35]


^

"He is considered by some as a father of modern economics, or at least a major forerunner. The Western world recognizes Khaldun as the father of sociology but hesitates in recognizing him as a great economist who laid its very foundations. He was the first to systematically analyze the functioning of an economy, the importance of technology, specialization and foreign trade in economic surplus and the role of government and its stabilization policies to increase output and employment. Moreover, he dealt with the problem of optimum taxation, minimum government services, incentives, institutional framework, law and order, expectations, production, and the theory of value".Cosma, Sorinel (2009). "Ibn Khaldun's Economic Thinking". Ovidius University Annals of Economics (Ovidius University Press) XIV:52–57





Citations



^ "IBN KHALDUN - His Life and Work". Retrieved 25 February 2017. 
^ Ahmad, Zaid (2010). "Ibn Khaldun". In Oliver Leaman. The Biographical Encyclopaedia of Islamic Philosophy. Continuum. (Subscription required (help)). 
^ Doniger, Wendy (1999). Merriam-Webster's Encyclopedia of World Religions. Merriam-Webstar Inc. p. 82. ISBN 0877790442. 
^ Cite error: The named reference Muqaddimah_2_1995_p_30 was invoked but never defined (see the help page).
^ Weiss 1995, p. 31 quotes Muqaddimah 2:276–78
^ In al-Muqaddima Ibn Khaldun cites him as a pioneer in sociology
^ • Joseph J. Spengler (1964). "Economic Thought of Islam: Ibn Khaldun", Comparative Studies in Society and History, 6(3), pp. 268-306.
  • Jean David C. Boulakia (1971). "Ibn Khaldûn: A Fourteenth-Century Economist", Journal of Political Economy, 79(5), pp. 1105-1118.
^ a b c Savant, Sarah Bowen (2014). Genealogy and Knowledge in Muslim Societies: Understanding the Past. Edinburgh University Press. p. 77. ISBN 978-0748644971. Banu Khaldun al-Hadrami (Yemen, but not Qahtan), to which belonged the famous historian Ibn Khaldun. The family's ancestor was 'Uthman ibn Bakr ibn Khalid, called Khaldun, a Yemeni Arab among the conquerors who shared kinship with the Prophet's Companian Wa'il ibn Hujr and who settled first in Carmona and then in Seville.  The Historical Muhammad, Irving M. Zeitlin, (Polity Press, 2007), 21; "It is, of course, Ibn Khaldun as an Arab here speaking, for he claims Arab descent through the male line.". The Arab World: Society, Culture, and State, Halim Barakat, (University of California Press, 1993), 48;"The renowned Arab sociologist-historian Ibn Khaldun first interpreted Arab history in terms of badu versus hadar conflicts and struggles for power." Ibn Khaldun, M. Talbi, The Encyclopaedia of Islam, Vol. III, ed. B. Lewis, V.L. Menage, C. Pellat, J. Schacht, (Brill, 1986), 825;"Ibn Khaldun was born in Tunis, on I Ramadan 732/27 May 1332, in an Arab family which came originally from the Hadramawt and had been settled at Seville since the beginning of the Muslim conquest..."
^ • Joseph J. Spengler (1964). "Economic Thought of Islam: Ibn Khaldun", Comparative Studies in Society and History, 6(3), pp. 268-306.
  • Jean David C. Boulakia (1971). "Ibn Khaldûn: A Fourteenth-Century Economist", Journal of Political Economy, 79(5), pp. 1105–1118.
^ Lewis, Bernard (1986). "Ibn Khaldūn in Turkey". In Ayalon, David; Sharon, Moshe. Studies in Islamic history and civilization: in honour of Professor David Ayalon. BRILL. pp. 527–530. ISBN 978-965-264-014-7 
^ Bernard Lewis: "Ibn Khaldun in Turkey", in: Ibn Khaldun: The Mediterranean in the 14th Century: Rise and Fall of Empires, Foundation El Legado Andalusí, 2006, ISBN 978-84-96556-34-8, pp. 376–380 (376) S. M. Deen (2007) Science under Islam: rise, decline and revival. p. 157. ISBN 1-84799-942-5
^ "Arab American National Museum : Online Collections". Retrieved 25 February 2017. 
^ Published by Muḥammad ibn Tāwīt aṭ-Ṭanjī, Cairo 1951
^ (in French) « Lettre à Monsieur Garcin de Tassy », Journal asiatique, troisième série, tome XII, éd. Société asiatique, Paris, 1841, p. 491
^ A., Khaldun: His life and Works for Mohammad Enan
^ "Notes on Ibn Khaludn's Life". Retrieved 25 February 2017. 
^ Al-Muqqadimah. Ibn Khaldun
^ Muhammad Hozien. "Ibn Khaldun: His Life and Work". Islamic Philosophy Online. Retrieved 2008-09-19. 
^ See articles by Modéran and Benabbès in Identités et Cultures dans l'Algérie Antique, University of Rouen, 2005 (ISBN 2-87775-391-3).
^ https://www.jstor.org/pss/3590803 Translation and the Colonial Imaginary: Ibn Khaldun Orientalist, by Abdelmajid Hannoum © 2003 Wesleyan University.
^ Ibn Khaldun, The Muqaddimah, ch. 3 pt.34-35[permanent dead link]
^ "How Far Are We From The Slippery Slope? The Laffer Curve Revisited" by Mathias Trabandt and Harald Uhlig, NBER Working Paper No. 15343, September 2009.
^ Laffer, Arthur. "The Laffer Curve: Past, Present, and Future". The Heritage Foundation. Retrieved 4 July 2012. 
^ Brederode, Robert F. van (2009). Systems of general sales taxation : theory, policy and practice. Austin [Tex.]: Wolters Kluwer Law & Business. p. 117. ISBN 9041128328. 
^ Enan, Muhammed Abdullah (2007). Ibn Khaldun: His Life and Works. The Other Press. p. 118. ISBN 983-9541-53-6. 
^ Enan, Muhammed Abdullah (2007). Ibn Khaldun: His Life and Works. The Other Press. pp. 118–9. ISBN 983-9541-53-6. 
^ Enan, Muhammed Abdullah (2007). Ibn Khaldun: His Life and Works. The Other Press. pp. 119–20. ISBN 983-9541-53-6. 
^ Encyclopædia Britannica, 15th ed., vol. 9, p. 148.
^ Lakhsassi, A. (1996) 'Ibn Khaldun', in S.H. Nasr and O. Leaman (eds) History of Islamic Philosophy, London: Routledge, ch. 25, 350–64. ... http://www.muslimphilosophy.com/ip/rep/H024.htm
^ Ernest Gellner, Plough, Sword and Book (1988), p. 239
^ * Egon Orowan. 1901–1989. A Biographical Memoir by F.R.N. Nabarro and A. S. Argon. 1996. National Academies Press. Washington, D.C.
^ Arthur Laffer (June 1, 2004). "The Laffer Cruve, Past, Present and Future". Heritage Foundation. Archived from the original on December 1, 2007. Retrieved 2007-12-11. 
^ Gates, Warren E. (1967). "The Spread of Ibn Khaldûn's Ideas on Climate and Culture". Journal of the History of Ideas. University of Pennsylvania Press. 28 (3): 415–422. doi:10.2307/2708627. 
^ Dhaouadi, M. (1 September 1990). "IBN KHALDUN: THE FOUNDING FATHER OF EASTERN SOCIOLOGY". International Sociology. 5 (3): 319–335. doi:10.1177/026858090005003007. 
^ Haddad, L. (1 May 1977). "A FOURTEENTH-CENTURY THEORY OF ECONOMIC GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT". Kyklos. 30 (2): 195–213. doi:10.1111/j.1467-6435.1977.tb02006.x. 


Further reading[edit]

Fuad Baali. 2005 The science of human social organization : Conflicting views on Ibn Khaldun's (1332–1406) Ilm al-umran. Mellen studies in sociology. Lewiston/NY: Edwin Mellen Press.
Walter Fischel. 1967 Ibn Khaldun in Egypt : His public functions and his historical research, 1382–1406; a study in Islamic historiography. Berkeley: University of California Press.
Allen Fromherz. 2010 "Ibn Khaldun : Life and Times". Edinburgh University Press, 2010.
Ana Maria C. Minecan, 2012 "El vínculo comunitario y el poder en Ibn Jaldún" in José-Miguel Marinas (Ed.), Pensar lo político: Ensayos sobre comunidad y conflicto, Biblioteca Nueva, Madrid, 2012.
Mahmoud Rabi'. 1967 The political theory of Ibn Khaldun. Leiden: E.J. Brill.
Róbert Simon. 2002 Ibn Khaldūn : History as science and the patrimonial empire. Translated by Klára Pogátsa. Budapest: Akadémiai Kiadó. Original edition, 1999.

External links[edit]



Wikimedia Commons has media related to Ibn Khaldun.





Wikiquote has quotations related to: Ibn Khaldun





Arabic Wikisource has original text related to this article:
Ibn Khaldun



English[edit]

Ibn Khaldun: His Life and Work, by Muhammad Hozien

Ibn Khaldun on In Our Time at the BBC.
Rosenthal, Franz (2008) [1970–80]. "Ibn Khaldūn". Complete Dictionary of Scientific Biography. Encyclopedia.com. 
Complete Muqaddimah/Kitab al-Ibar in English (without Chapter V, 13)
The Tunisian American Center (USA)
Ibn Khaldun on the Web
Muslim Scientists and Scholars – Ibn Khaldun
Ibn Khaldūn, from Arnold Toynbee, A Study of History vol. iii, III. C. II. (b), p. 321
Ibn Khaldun’s Philosophy of Management and Work
Ibn Khaldun (al-Muqaddimah): Methodology & concepts of economic sociology
Ibn Khaldun. The Mediterranean in the 14th century: Rise and fall of Empires. Andalusian Legacy exhibition in the Alcazar of Seville
The Ibn Khaldun Community Service Award©
Ibn Khaldun meets Al Saud
The Ibn Khaldun Institute
The Tunisian American Day©

Non-English[edit]

Multilingual tunisian academic web site on Ibn Khaldun
(in French) Exposé simplifié sur la théologie scolastique
Chapters from the Muqaddimah and the History of Ibn Khaldun in Arabic
Ismail Küpeli: Ibn Khaldun und das politische System Syriens – Eine Gegenüberstellung, München, 2007, ISBN 978-3-638-75458-3 (German e-book about the politics of Syria with reference to the political theory of Ibn Khaldun)
Kuchinov A. M. Ibn Khaldun influence on social thought development // Lomonosov-2013. - Moscow, 2013. In Russian.







v
t
e


Muslim scholars of the Maliki School






by century (AH
CE)





2nd/8th



Malik ibn Anas (founder of the school)
Ibn al-Qasim
Ibn Wahb
Ibn Bashir
Ali ibn Ziyad








3rd/9th



Ashhab
Ibn Nafi'
Ibn 'Abd al-Hakam
Asad ibn al-Furat
Ibn al-Majishun
Ibn Nafi' az-Zubayri
Ibn Maslama al-Makhzumi
Mutarrif
Ibn Maslama al-Qa'nabi
Yahya al-Laithi
Al-Asbagh
Ibn Habib
Sahnun
Al-'Utbi
Ibn Sahnun
Muhammad ibn 'Abd al-Hakam
Ibn al-Mawwaz
Qadi Isma'il





4th/10th



Abu Imran al-Fasi
Ibn al-Jallab
Ibn Sha'ban
Ibn Shiblun
Al-Abhari
Ibn Abi Zayd
Sidi Mahrez





5th/11th



Al-Baqillani
Ibn 'Abd al-Barr
Al-Baji
Al-Lakhmi
Qadi 'Abd al-Wahhab
Al-Lamti





6th/12th



Ibn Rushd al-Jadd
At-Turtushi
Sanad ibn 'Inan
Al-Maziri
Qadi Ayyad
Averroes
Abu Bakr ibn al-Arabi
Ibn Barrajan
Al-Suhayli
Al-Tamimi





7th/13th



Ibn Ata Allah
Ibn Shas
Ibn al-Hajib
Ibn Daqiq al-Eid
al-Qurtubi
al-Qarafi
Al-Azafi
Al-Qattan
Ibn Rushayd
Al-Zarwili





8th/14th



Ibn al-Haj
Ibn Farhun
Ash-Shatibi
Ibn Juzayy
Khalil ibn-Ishaq
Al-Fakihani
Taqi al-Din Muhammad ibn Ahmad al-Fasi
Al-Sakkak





9th/15th



Ibn Marzuq
Al-Mawwaq
Ibn al-Azraq
Ibn 'Arafa
Ibn Khaldun
Ahmad Zarruq
Ibn Hilal Al-Sijilmasi





10th/16th



Al-Akhdari
At-Tata'i
Al-Hattab
'Abd ar-Rahman al-Ujhuri
Nasir ud-Deen al-Laqqani
Ali ibn Qasim al-Zaqqaq
Al-Wansharisi
Ibn Abi Jum'ah
Al-Miknasi
Al-Mandjur
Al-Tamgruiti





11th/17th



Al-Ujhuri
Al-Laqani
Az-Zurqani
Ibn Ashir
Mayyara
Muhammad al-Zurqani
Al-Dila'i
Al-Rahman Al-Fasi
Al-Qadir Al-Fasi





12th/18th



Al-Kharashi
Al-'Adawi
An-Nafrawi
Al-Bannani
Ad-Dardir
Al-Hajj Al-Fasi
Al-Tawudi Ibn Suda
Ibn Al-Tayyib
Al-Qasim Al-Sijilmasi





13th/19th



Ad-Desouki
Al Alawi
As-Sawi
'Illish
Al-'Adawi
Ahmed Harrak Srifi
Ahmed Skirej





14th/20th



Abdallah Bin Bayyah
Ahmed Babikir
Muhammad al-Yaqoubi
Muhammad Alawi al-Maliki
Mohamed Taher Ben Achour
Mohamed Fadhel Ben Achour
Al-Habib Bin Tahir
Hamza Yusuf
Othman Battikh
Rashid Al Marikhi
Salâh Ud Dîn At Tijânî






Scholars of other Sunni Islamic schools of jurisprudence

Hanafi
Hanbali
Shafi'i
Zahiri












v
t
e


Geography and cartography in medieval Islam



Geographers




9th century



Muḥammad ibn Mūsā al-Khwārizmī
Abū Ḥanīfa Dīnawarī
Ya'qubi
Sulaiman al-Tajir





10th century



Ibn Khordadbeh
Ahmad ibn Rustah
Ahmad ibn Fadlan
Abu Zayd al-Balkhi
Abū Muhammad al-Hasan al-Hamdānī
Al-Masudi
Istakhri
Khashkhash Ibn Saeed Ibn Aswad
Ibn Hawqal
Ibn al-Faqih
Al-Muqaddasi
Al-Ramhormuzi





11th century



Abū Rayḥān al-Bīrūnī
Abu Saʿīd Gardēzī
Al-Bakri
Mahmud al-Kashgari
Domiyat





12th century



Al-Zuhri
Muhammad al-Idrisi
Abu'l Abbas al-Hijazi





13th century



Ibn Jubayr
Saadi Shirazi
Yaqut al-Hamawi
Ibn Said al-Maghribi
Ibn al-Nafis





14th century



Al-Dimashqi
Abu'l-Fida
Ibn al-Wardi
Hamdollah Mostowfi
Ibn Battuta
Lin Nu





15th century



Abd-al-Razzāq Samarqandī
Ghiyāth al-dīn Naqqāsh
Ahmad ibn Mājid
Zheng He
Ma Huan
Fei Xin





16th century



Sulaiman Al Mahri
Piri Reis
Mir Ahmed Nasrallah Thattvi
Amīn Rāzī





17th century



Evliya Çelebi








Works



Book of Roads and Kingdoms (al-Bakrī)
Book of Roads and Kingdoms (ibn Khordadbeh)
Tabula Rogeriana
Kitab al-Rawd al-Mitar
Mu'jam Al-Buldan
Rihla
The Meadows of Gold
Piri Reis map





Influences



Geography (Ptolemy)












v
t
e


Islamic philosophy







Fields



Alchemy
Aqidah (theology)
'Aql (intellect)
Cosmology

astrology
medieval astronomy


Eschatology
Ethics
Kalam (dialectic)
Fiqh (jurisprudence)
Logic
Metaphysics
Natural philosophy (physics)
Peace
Madrasah (education)
Medieval science
Medieval psychology
Sufism (mysticism)





Schools



Early
Farabism
Avicennism
Averroism
Illuminationism
Sufi

cosmology
metaphysics


Transcendent theosophy
Traditionalist
Contemporary





Concepts



ʻAṣabīya
Ḥāl
Iʻjaz
ʼIjtihād
ʻlm
ʻIrfān
Ijmāʿ
Maslaha
Nafs
Qadar
Qalb
Qiyās
Shūrā
Tawḥīd
Ummah













Philosophers by century (CE)







9th–10th



Al-Kindi
Ali ibn Sahl Rabban al-Tabari
Abu al-Abbas Iranshahri
Zakariya Razi
Apharabius
Abu Hatim al-Razi
Al Amiri
Ikhwan al-Safa
Abu Sulayman Sijistani
Ibn Masarrah
Abu Yaqub al-Sijistani





11th



Al-Ghazali
Ibn Miskawayh
Avicenna
Ibn Hazm
Bahmanyār
Mu'ayyad fi'l-Din al-Shirazi
Nasir Khusraw





12th



Abu'l-Barakāt al-Baghdādī
Afdal al-Din Kashani
Ahi Evren
Ahmad Yasavi
Ayn-al-Quzat
Averroes
Ibn Tufail
Omar Khayyám
Suhrawardi
Shams Tabrizi





13th



Hajji Bektash Wali
Jalal ad-Din Muhammad Rumi
Ibn Sab’in
Ibn Arabi
al-Abharī
Nasir al-Din Tusi
Fakhr ad-Din ar-Razi
Qutb al-Din al-Shirazi
Sadr al-Din al-Qunawi





14th–16th



Ibn Khaldun
Yunus Emre
Hajji Bayram
Jalaladdin Davani
Sadr ad-Din Dashtaki
Aziz Mahmud Hudayi
Qadi Mir Husayn al-Maybudi
Mahmud Shabistari
Sayyid Haydar Amuli
Dawūd al-Qayṣarī
Jami





17th–19th



Mir Damad
Mir Fendereski
Mulla Sadra
Mohsen Fayz Kashani
Abd al-Razzaq Lahiji
Mujaddid Alf-i-Sani
Rajab Ali Tabrizi
Qazi Sa’id Qumi
Shah Waliullah Dehlawi
Hādī Sabzavārī





20th–present



Muhammad Husayn Tabatabaei
Muhammad Iqbal
Gohar Shahi
Mohammad Baqir al-Sadr
René Guénon
Frithjof Schuon
Martin Lings
Hossein Nasr
Naquib al-Attas
Abdolkarim Soroush
Gholamhossein Ebrahimi Dinani
Taha Abdurrahman
Mohammed Abed al-Jabri
Mohammed Arkoun
Fouad Zakariyya
Reza Davari Ardakani
Ahmad Fardid
Mostafa Malekian
Hasanzadeh Amoli
Javadi Amoli
Partawi Shah














Arab world portal
Sociology portal
Philosophy portal
Islam portal
History portal
Middle Ages portal
Biography portal





Authority control



WorldCat Identities
VIAF: 41841661
LCCN: n50052785
ISNI: 0000 0001 2129 6275
GND: 118639773
SELIBR: 63193
SUDOC: 027317250
BNF: cb119081451 (data)
NLA: 35217597
NDL: 00444184
NKC: jn20011211046
RLS: 000003721
BNE: XX1059103










 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Ibn_Khaldun&oldid=811164343"					
Categories: Arab Muslim historians of IslamAsharisTunisian historiansMujaddidPeople of Al-Andalus14th-century historiansAutobiographersTheories of historyCross-cultural studiesScientists of medieval IslamPreclassical economists14th-century Tunisian people15th-century Tunisian peopleAnthropologistsTunisian sociologistsWriters about globalizationUniversity of al-Qarawiyyin alumniTunisian expatriates in MoroccoCritics of Shia Islam1332 births1406 deathsPolitical philosophy in medieval IslamArabs in MoroccoMoroccan peopleMoroccan people of Arab descentAfrican people of Arab descentArab diaspora in AfricaMoroccan historiansMoroccan MuslimsArab political theoristsHidden categories: Pages with reference errorsPages containing links to subscription-only contentPages with broken reference namesArticles with inconsistent citation formatsArticles with French-language external linksAll articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from August 2017Articles with permanently dead external linksArticles which use infobox templates with no data rowsPages using infobox person with unknown parametersInfobox person using religionArticles with hCardsArticles containing Arabic-language textAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from November 2013Articles with unsourced quotesAll articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrasesArticles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from July 2016All accuracy disputesArticles with disputed statements from June 2017Articles with unsourced statements from August 2017Articles with disputed statements from July 2016Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with SELIBR identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersWikipedia articles with NLA identifiers 
