Jabir ibn Hayyan - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

For other people known as Geber, see Geber.


Jabir ibn Hayyan



15th-century European portrait of "Geber", Codici Ashburnhamiani 1166, Biblioteca Medicea Laurenziana, Florence



Born
Abu Musa Jabir ibn Hayyan
c. 721 CE
Tus, Khurasan, Umayyad Caliphate[1]


Died
c. 815 CE


Ethnicity
Arab[2][3][4] or Persian[5]


Era
Islamic Golden Age


Religion
Islam


Main interest(s)
Alchemy and Chemistry, Astronomy, Astrology, Medicine and Pharmacy, Philosophy, Physics, philanthropist


Notable work(s)
Kitab al-Kimya, Kitab al-Sab'een, Book of the Kingdom, Book of the Balances, Book of Eastern Mercury, etc.




Influenced by

Ja'far al-Sadiq, Alchemy, Harbi al-Himyari







Influenced

Dhul-Nun al-Misri, Al-Kindi, Alchemy, Chemistry





Abu Mūsā Jābir ibn Hayyān (Arabic: جابر بن حیان‎, Persian: جابر بن حیان‎‎‎, often given the nisbahs al-Bariqi, al-Azdi, al-Kufi, al-Tusi or al-Sufi; fl. c. 721 – c. 815),[6] also known by the Latinization Geber, was a polymath: a chemist and alchemist, astronomer and astrologer, engineer, geographer, philosopher, physicist, and pharmacist and physician. Born and educated in Tus, he later traveled to Kufa. He has been described as the father of early chemistry, who even anticipated nuclear fission and the destructive power of splitting an atom.[7][8][9][10]
As early as the 10th century, the identity and exact corpus of works of Jabir was in dispute in Islamic circles.[11] His name was Latinized as "Geber" in the Christian West and in 13th-century Europe an anonymous writer, usually referred to as Pseudo-Geber, produced alchemical and metallurgical writings under the pen-name Geber.[12]



Contents


1 Biography

1.1 Early references
1.2 Life and background


2 The Jabirian corpus

2.1 People
2.2 Theories
2.3 Laboratory equipment and material

2.3.1 Mineral acids and alcohol


2.4 Legacy


3 The Geber problem
4 Bibliography

4.1 The Pseudo-Geber corpus
4.2 English translations of Jabir and the Pseudo-Geber


5 Popular culture
6 See also
7 References
8 External links



Biography[edit]
Early references[edit]
In 988 Ibn al-Nadim compiled the Kitab al-Fihrist which mentions Jabir as a spiritual follower and as a companion to Jafar as-Sadiq, the sixth Shia Imam. In another reference al-Nadim reports that a group of philosophers claimed Jabir was one of their own members. Another group, reported by al-Nadim, says only The Large Book of Mercy is genuine and that the rest are pseudographical. Their assertions are rejected by al-Nadim.[11] Joining al-Nadim in asserting a real Jabir; Ibn-Wahshiyya ("Jaber ibn Hayyn al-Sufi ...book on poison is a great work...") Rejecting a real Jabir; (the philosopher c. 970) Abu Sulayman al-Mantiqi claims the real author is one al-Hasan ibn al-Nakad al-Mawili. The 14th century critic of Arabic literature, Jamal al-Din ibn Nubata al-Misri declares all the writings attributed to Jabir doubtful.[13]
Life and background[edit]
Jabir was a natural philosopher who lived mostly in the 8th century; he was born in Tus, Khorasan, in Persia,[6] well known as Iran then ruled by the Umayyad Caliphate. Jabir in the classical sources has been entitled differently as al-Azdi al-Barigi or al-Kufi or al-Tusi or al-Sufi.[14] There is a difference of opinion[14] as to whether he was a Persian from Khorasan who later went to Kufa or whether he was, as some have suggested, of Syrian origin and later lived in Persia and Iraq.[14] His ethnic background is not clear,[14] but most sources reference him as a Persian.[5] In some sources, he is reported to have been the son of Hayyan al-Azdi, a pharmacist of the Arabian Azd tribe who emigrated from Yemen to Kufa (in present-day Iraq) during the Umayyad Caliphate.[15][16] while Henry Corbin believes Geber seems to have been a client of the 'Azd tribe.[17] Hayyan had supported the Abbasid revolt against the Umayyads, and was sent by them to the province of Khorasan to gather support for their cause. He was eventually caught by the Umayyads and executed. His family fled to Yemen,[15][18] where Jabir grew up and studied the Quran, mathematics and other subjects.[15] Jabir's father's profession may have contributed greatly to his interest in alchemy.
After the Abbasids took power, Jabir went back to Kufa. He began his career practicing medicine, under the patronage of a Vizir (from the noble Persian family Barmakids) of Caliph Harun al-Rashid. His connections to the Barmakid cost him dearly in the end. When that family fell from grace in 803, Jabir was placed under house arrest in Kufa, where he remained until his death.
It has been asserted that Jabir was a student of the sixth Imam Ja'far al-Sadiq and Harbi al-Himyari;[11][19] however, other scholars have questioned this theory.[20]
The Jabirian corpus[edit]




An illustration of the various experiments and instruments used by Jabir Ibn Hayyan.


In total, nearly 3,000 treatises and articles are credited to Jabir ibn Hayyan.[21] Following the pioneering work of Paul Kraus, who demonstrated that a corpus of some several hundred works ascribed to Jābir were probably a medley from different hands,[13]:3[22] mostly dating to the late 9th and early 10th centuries, many scholars believe that many of these works consist of commentaries and additions by his followers,[citation needed] particularly of an Ismaili persuasion.[23]
The scope of the corpus is vast: cosmology, music, medicine, magic, biology, chemical technology, geometry, grammar, metaphysics, logic, artificial generation of living beings, along with astrological predictions, and symbolic Imâmî myths.[13]:5

The 112 Books dedicated to the Barmakids, viziers of Caliph Harun al-Rashid. This group includes the Arabic version of the Emerald Tablet, an ancient work that proved a recurring foundation of and source for alchemical operations. In the Middle Ages it was translated into Latin (Tabula Smaragdina) and widely diffused among European alchemists.
The Seventy Books, most of which were translated into Latin during the Middle Ages. This group includes the Kitab al-Zuhra ("Book of Venus") and the Kitab Al-Ahjar ("Book of Stones").
The Ten Books on Rectification, containing descriptions of alchemists such as Pythagoras, Socrates, Plato and Aristotle.
The Books on Balance; this group includes his most famous 'Theory of the balance in Nature'.

Jabir states in his Book of Stones (4:12) that "The purpose is to baffle and lead into error everyone except those whom God loves and provides for". His works seem to have been deliberately written in highly esoteric code (see steganography), so that only those who had been initiated into his alchemical school could understand them. It is therefore difficult at best for the modern reader to discern which aspects of Jabir's work are to be read as ambiguous symbols, and what is to be taken literally. Because his works rarely made overt sense, the term gibberish is believed to have originally referred to his writings (Hauck, p. 19).
People[edit]
Jabir's interest in alchemy was inspired by his teacher Ja'far as-Sadiq. When he used to talk about alchemy, he would say "my master Ja'far as-Sadiq taught me about calcium, evaporation, distillation and crystallization and everything I learned in alchemy was from my master Ja'far as-Sadiq."[citation needed] Imam Jafar was famed for his depth and breadth of knowledge. In addition to his knowledge of Islamic sciences, Imam Jafar was well educated in natural sciences, mathematics, philosophy, astronomy, anatomy, chemistry (alchemy), and other subjects. The foremost Islamic alchemist Jabir bin Hayyan was his most prominent student. Other famous students of his were Imam Abu Hanifa and Imam Malik Ibn Anas, the founders of two Sunni schools of jurisprudence, and Wasil ibn Ata, the founder of the Mutazilite school of Islamic thought. Imam Jafar was known for his liberal views on learning, and was keen to debate with scholars of different faiths and of different beliefs. Imam Abu Hanifa is quoted by many sources as having said "My knowledge extends to only two years. The two I spent with Imam Jafar Sadiq". Some Islamic scholars have gone so far as to call Imam Jafar Saddiq as the root of most of Islamic jurisprudence, having a massive influence on Hanafi, Maliki and Shia schools of thought extending well into mainstream Hanbali and Shafi'i thought. Imam Jafar also attained a surpassing knowledge in astronomy and in the science of medicine.
Jabir professes to draw his inspiration from earlier writers, legendary and historic, on the subject.[24] In his writings, Jabir pays tribute to Egyptian and Greek alchemists Zosimos, Democritus, Hermes Trismegistus, Agathodaemon, but also Plato, Aristotle, Galen, Pythagoras, and Socrates as well as the commentators Alexander of Aphrodisias Simplicius, Porphyry and others.[13]:5 A huge pseudo-epigraphic literature of alchemical books was composed in Arabic, among which the names of Persian authors also appear like Jāmāsb, Ostanes, Mani, testifying that alchemy-like operations on metals and other substances were also practiced in Persia. The great number of Persian technical names (zaybaq = mercury, nošāder = sal-ammoniac) also corroborates the idea of an important Iranian root of medieval alchemy.[25] Ibn al-Nadim reports a dialogue between Aristotle and Ostanes, the Persian alchemist of Achaemenid era, which is in Jabirian corpus under the title of Kitab Musahhaha Aristutalis.[26] Ruska had suggested that the Sasanian medical schools played an important role in the spread of interest in alchemy.[25] He emphasizes the long history of alchemy, "whose origin is Arius ... the first man who applied the first experiment on the [philosopher's] stone... and he declares that man possesses the ability to imitate the workings of Nature" (Nasr, Seyyed Hussein, Science and Civilization of Islam).
Theories[edit]
Jabir's alchemical investigations ostensibly revolved around the ultimate goal of takwin — the artificial creation of life. The Book of Stones includes several recipes for creating creatures such as scorpions, snakes, and even humans in a laboratory environment, which are subject to the control of their creator. What Jabir meant by these recipes is unknown.[citation needed]
Jabir's alchemical investigations were theoretically grounded in an elaborate numerology related to Pythagorean and Neoplatonic systems.[citation needed] The nature and properties of elements was defined through numeric values assigned the Arabic consonants present in their name, a precursor to the character notation used today.
By Jabirs' time Aristotelian physics had become Neoplatonic. Each Aristotelian element was composed of these qualities: fire was both hot and dry, earth, cold and dry, water cold and moist, and air, hot and moist. This came from the elementary qualities which are theoretical in nature plus substance. In metals two of these qualities were interior and two were exterior. For example, lead was cold and dry and gold was hot and moist. Thus, Jabir theorized, by rearranging the qualities of one metal, a different metal would result. Like Zosimos, Jabir believed this would require a catalyst, an al-iksir, the elusive elixir that would make this transformation possible — which in European alchemy became known as the philosopher's stone.[13]
According to Jabir's mercury-sulfur theory, metals differ from each in so far as they contain different proportions of the sulfur and mercury. These are not the elements that we know by those names, but certain principles to which those elements are the closest approximation in nature.[27] Based on Aristotle's "exhalation" theory the dry and moist exhalations become sulfur and mercury (sometimes called "sophic" or "philosophic" mercury and sulfur). The sulfur-mercury theory is first recorded in a 7th-century work Secret of Creation credited (falsely) to Balinus (Apollonius of Tyana). This view becomes widespread.[28] In the Book of Explanation Jabir says

the metals are all, in essence, composed of mercury combined and coagulated with sulphur [that has risen to it in earthy, smoke-like vapors]. They differ from one another only because of the difference of their accidental qualities, and this difference is due to the difference of their sulphur, which again is caused by a variation in the soils and in their positions with respect to the heat of the sun

Holmyard says that Jabir proves by experiment that these are not ordinary sulfur and mercury.[15]
The seeds of the modern classification of elements into metals and non-metals could be seen in his chemical nomenclature. He proposed three categories:[29]

"Spirits" which vaporise on heating, like arsenic (realgar, orpiment), camphor, mercury, sulfur, sal ammoniac, and ammonium chloride.
"Metals", like gold, silver, lead, tin, copper, iron, and khar-sini (Chinese iron)
Non-malleable substances, that can be converted into powders, such as stones.

The origins of the idea of chemical equivalents might be traced back to Jabir, in whose time it was recognized that "a certain quantity of acid is necessary in order to neutralize a given amount of base."[30][verification needed] Jabir also made important contributions to medicine, astronomy/astrology, and other sciences.[which?][citation needed] Only a few of his books have been edited and published, and fewer still are available in translation.[citation needed]
Laboratory equipment and material[edit]




Ambix, cucurbit and retort of Zosimus, from Marcelin Berthelot, Collection of ancient greek alchemists (3 vol., Paris, 1887–1888).


The Jabirian corpus is renowned for its contributions to alchemy. It shows a clear recognition of the importance of experimentation, "The first essential in chemistry is that thou shouldest perform practical work and conduct experiments, for he who performs not practical work nor makes experiments will never attain to the least degree of mastery."[31] He is credited with the use of over twenty types of now-basic chemical laboratory equipment,[32] such as the alembic[33] and retort, and with the description of many now-commonplace chemical processes – such as crystallisation, various forms of alchemical "distillation", and substances citric acid (the sour component of lemons and other unripe fruits), acetic acid (from vinegar) and tartaric acid (from wine-making residues), arsenic, antimony and bismuth, sulfur, and mercury[31][32] that have become the foundation of today's chemistry.[34]
According to Ismail al-Faruqi and Lois Lamya al-Faruqi, "In response to Jafar al-Sadik's wishes, [Jabir ibn Hayyan] invented a kind of paper that resisted fire, and an ink that could be read at night. He invented an additive which, when applied to an iron surface, inhibited rust and when applied to a textile, would make it water repellent."[35]
Mineral acids and alcohol[edit]
Directions to make mineral acids such as sulfuric acid, nitric acid and aqua regis appear in the Arabic Jabirian corpus,[36] and later in the pseudo-Geberian works Liber Fornacum, De inventione perfectionis, and the Summa.[37]
According to Forbes, there is no proof that Jabir knew alcohol.[37] Later, Al-Kindi unambiguously described the distillation of wine in the 9th century.[38][39][40]
Legacy[edit]




European depiction of "Geber".






Geber, Chimistes Celebres, Liebig's Extract of Meat Company Trading Card, 1929.


Whether there was a real Jabir in the 8th century or not, his name would become the most famous in alchemy.[20] He paved the way for most of the later alchemists, including al-Kindi, al-Razi, al-Tughrai and al-Iraqi, who lived in the 9th–13th centuries. His books strongly influenced the medieval European alchemists[34] and justified their search for the philosopher's stone.[41][42] In the Middle Ages, Jabir's treatises on alchemy were translated into Latin and became standard texts for European alchemists. These include the Kitab al-Kimya (titled Book of the Composition of Alchemy in Europe), translated by Robert of Chester (1144); and the Kitab al-Sab'een (Book of Seventy) by Gerard of Cremona (before 1187). Marcelin Berthelot translated some of his books under the fanciful titles Book of the Kingdom, Book of the Balances, and Book of Eastern Mercury. Several technical Arabic terms introduced by Jabir, such as alkali, have found their way into various European languages and have become part of scientific vocabulary.
Max Meyerhoff states the following on Jabir ibn Hayyan: "His influence may be traced throughout the whole historic course of European alchemy and chemistry."[34]
The historian of chemistry Erick John Holmyard gives credit to Jabir for developing alchemy into an experimental science and he writes that Jabir's importance to the history of chemistry is equal to that of Robert Boyle and Antoine Lavoisier. The historian Paul Kraus, who had studied most of Jabir's extant works in Arabic and Latin, summarized the importance of Jabir to the history of chemistry by comparing his experimental and systematic works in chemistry with that of the allegorical and unintelligible works of the ancient Greek alchemists.[43] The word gibberish is theorized to be derived from the Latinised version off Jabir's name,[44] in reference to the incomprehensible technical jargon often used by alchemists, the most famous of whom was Jabir.[45] Other sources such as the Oxford English Dictionary suggest the term stems from gibber; however, the first known recorded use of the term "gibberish" was before the first known recorded use of the word "gibber" (see Gibberish).
The Geber problem[edit]
The identity of the author of works attributed to Jabir has long been discussed.[11] According to a famous controversy,[46] pseudo-Geber has been considered as the unknown author of several books in Alchemy.[47] This was first independently suggested, on textual and other grounds, by the 19th-century historians Hermann Kopp and Marcellin Berthelot.[48] Jabir, by reputation the greatest chemist of Islam, has long been familiar to western readers under the name of Geber, which is the medieval rendering of the Arabic Jabir, the Geber of the Middle Ages.[49] The works in Latin corpus were considered to be translations until the studies of Kopp, Hoefer, Berthelot, and Lippman. Although they reflect earlier Arabic alchemy they are not direct translations of "Jabir" but are the work of a 13th-century Latin alchemist.[50] Eric Holmyard says in his book Makers of Chemistry Clarendon press.(1931).[51]

There are, however, certain other Latin works, entitled The Sum of Perfection, The Investigation of Perfection, The Invention of Verity, The Book of Furnaces, and The Testament, which pass under his name but of which no Arabic original is known. A problem which historians of chemistry have not yet succeeded in solving is whether these works are genuine or not.

However, by 1957 AD when he (Holmyard) wrote Alchemy. Courier Dover Publications. p. 134. ISBN 978-0-486-26298-7. Holmyard had abandoned the idea of an Arabic original. (although they are based on "Islamic" alchemical theories)

The question at once arises whether the Latin works are genuine translations from the Arabic, or written by a Latin author and, according to common practice, ascribed to Jabir in order to heighten their authority. That they are based on Muslim alchemical theory and practice is not questioned, but the same may be said of most Latin treatises on alchemy of that period; and from various turns of phrase it seems likely that their author could read Arabic. But the general style of the works is too clear and systematic to find a close parallel in any of the known writings of the Jabirian corpus, and we look in vain in them for any references to the characteristically Jabirian ideas of "balance" and the alphabetic numerology. Indeed for their age they have a remarkably matter of fact air about them, theory being stated with a minimum of prolixity and much precise practical detail being given. The general impression they convey is that they are the product of an occidental rather than an oriental mind, and a likely guess would be that they were written by a European scholar, possibly in Moorish Spain. Whatever their origin, they became the principal authorities in early Western alchemy and held that position for two or three centuries.

The question of Pseudo-Gebers identity is still in dispute (1962).[52] It is said that Geber, the Latinized form of "Jabir," was adopted presumably because of the great reputation of a supposed 8th-century alchemist by the name of Jabir ibn Hayyan.[53] About this historical figure, however, there was considerable uncertainty a century ago,[54] and the uncertainty continues today.[55] This is sometimes called the "Geber-Jābir problem".[11] It is possible that facts mentioned in the Latin works, ascribed to Geber and dating from the twelfth century and later, may be placed to Jabir's credit.[49]
In 2005, the historian Ahmad Y. Al-Hassan pointed out that earlier Arabic texts prior to the 13th century, including the works of Jabir and Al-Razi, already contained detailed descriptions of substances such as nitric acid, aqua regia, vitriol, and various nitrates.[36] In 2009, Al-Hassan criticized Berthelot's original hypothesis and, on textual grounds, argued that the Pseudo-Geber Corpus was originally written in Arabic. Al-Hassan criticized Berthelot's lack of familiarity with the complete Arabic corpus and pointed to various Arabic Jabirian manuscripts which already contain much of the theories and practices that Berthelot previously attributed to the Latin corpus.[56] Regardless of the identity of pseudo-Geber, the contents of the Pseudo-Geber Corpus are mostly derived from earlier Arabic alchemy, including the work of Jabir as well as other Arabic authors such as Al-Razi.[56]
Bibliography[edit]
The Pseudo-Geber corpus[edit]
The Latin corpus consists of books with an author named "Geber" for which researchers have failed to find a text in Arabic. These books were heavily influenced by Arabic books written by Jabir, the "real" Geber, and by Al Razi and others. They are available in Latin only, date from about the year 1310, and their author is identified as "Geber" or pseudo-Geber:

Summa perfectionis magisterii ("The Height of the Perfection of Mastery").[57]
Liber fornacum ("Book of Furnaces"),
De investigatione perfectionis ("On the Investigation of Perfection"), and
De inventione veritatis ("On the Discovery of Truth").
Testamentum gerberi

The Liber fornacum, De investigatione perfectionis and De inventione veritatis "are merely extracts from or summaries of the Summa Perfectionis Magisterii with later additions."[58] which may have been compiled by later writers.
English translations of Jabir and the Pseudo-Geber[edit]

Syed Nomanul Haq, Names, Natures and Things: The Alchemists Jabir ibn Hayyan and his Kitab al-Ahjar (Book of Stones), [Boston Studies in the Philosophy of Science p. 158] (Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1994), ISBN 0-7923-3254-7.
Donald Routledge Hill, 'The Literature of Arabic Alchemy' in Religion: Learning and Science in the Abbasid Period, ed. by M.J.L. Young, J.D. Latham and R.B. Serjeant (Cambridge University Press, 1990) pp. 328–341, esp. pp 333–5.
E. J. Holmyard (ed.) The Arabic Works of Jabir ibn Hayyan, translated by Richard Russel in 1678. New York, E. P. Dutton (1928); Also Paris, P. Geuther.
Geber and William R. Newman, The Summa Perfectionis of Pseudo-Geber: A Critical Edition, Translation and Study ISBN 978-90-04-09464-2.
William R. Newman, New Light on the Identity of Geber, Sudhoffs Archiv, 1985, Vol.69, pp. 76–90.

Popular culture[edit]

Geber is mentioned in Paulo Coelho's 1993 bestseller, The Alchemist.[59]
Jabbir is said to be the creator of a (fictional) mystical chess set in Katherine Neville's novels The Eight and The Fire.
In S.H.I.E.L.D, Jabir appears as the 8th century leader of the organization.[60]
Jabir is mentioned in the American sitcom The Big Bang Theory, in the episode "The Guitarist Amplification".
Jabir Ibn Hayyan is mentioned in the graphic novel Habibi by Craig Thompson, p. 253-254.
In the DC comic book title Demon Knights, the 11th century engineer Al-Jabr appears to be based on Jabir Ibn Hayyan.
Jabir Ibn Hayyan is mentioned in Satyajit Ray's short stories of Professor Shonku.

See also[edit]

Alchemy
Alchemy and chemistry in medieval Islam
Chemistry
Al-Kindi
List of Iranian scientists and scholars
Muhammad ibn Zakariya ar-Razi
Science in medieval Islam

References[edit]


^ Tus, V. Minorsky, The Encyclopaedia of Islam, Vol. X, ed. P.J. Bearman, T. Bianquis, C.E. Bosworth, E. van Donzel and W.P. Heinrichs, (Brill, 2000), 741.
^ Kraus, P. (1962). "Djābir B. Ḥayyān". Encyclopaedia of Islam. 2 (2nd ed.). Brill Academic Publishers. pp. 357–359. As for Djābir's historic personality, Holmyard has suggested that his father was "a certain Azdī called Hayyan, druggist of Kufa... mentioned... in connection with the political machinations that were used by many people, in the eighth century, finally resulted in the overthrow of the Umayyad dynasty. 
^ Holmyard, Eric John, "Introduction" to The Works of Geber, translated by Richard Russell (London: Dent, 1928), p. vii: "Abu Musa Jabir ibn Hayyan, generally known merely as Jabir, was the son of a druggist belonging to the famous South Arabian tribe of Al-Azd. Members of this tribe had settled at the town of Kufa, in Iraq, shortly after the Muhammadan conquest in the seventh century A.D., and it was in Kufa that Hayyan the druggist lived."
^ https://archive.org/details/WorksOfGeber
^ a b

William R. Newman, Gehennical Fire: The Lives of George Starkey, an American Alchemist in the Scientific Revolution, Harvard University Press, 1994. p. 94: "According to traditional bio-bibliography of Muslims, Jabir ibn Hayyan was a Persian alchemist who lived at some time in the eighth century and wrote a wealth of books on virtually every aspect of natural philosophy"
William R. Newman, "The Occult and Manifest Among the Alchemists", in F. J. Ragep, Sally P Ragep, Steven John Livesey, Tradition, Transmission, Transformation: Proceedings of Two Conferences on pre-Modern science held at University of Oklahoma, Brill, 1996/1997, p. 178: "This language of extracting the hidden nature formed an important lemma for the extensive corpus associated with the Persian alchemist Jabir ibn Hayyan"
Henry Corbin, "The Voyage and the Messenger: Iran and Philosophy", translated by Joseph H. Rowe, North Atlantic Books, 1998. p. 45: "The Nisba al-Azdin certainly does not necessarily indicate Arab origin. Geber seems to have been a client (mawla) of the Azd tribe established in Kufa"
Tamara M. Green, "The City of the Moon God: Religious Traditions of Harran (Religions in the Graeco-Roman World)", Brill, 1992. p. 177: "His most famous student was the Persian *Jabir ibn Hayyan (b. circa 721 C.E.), under whose name the vast corpus of alchemical writing circulated in the medieval period in both the east and west, although many of the works attributed to Jabir have been demonstrated to be likely product of later Ismaili' tradition."
David Gordon White, "The Alchemical Body: Siddha Traditions in Medieval India", University of Chicago Press, 1996. p. 447
William R. Newman, Promethean Ambitions: Alchemy and the Quest to Perfect Nature, University of Chicago Press, 2004. p. 181: "The corpus ascribed to the eighth-century Persian sage Jabir ibn Hayyan..."
Wilbur Applebaum, The Scientific revolution and the foundation of modern science, Greenwood Press, 1995. p. 44: "The chief source of Arabic alchemy was associated with the name, in its Latinized form, of Geber, an eighth-century Persian."
Neil Kamil, Fortress of the Soul: Violence, Metaphysics, and Material Life in the Huguenots New World, 1517–1751 (Early America: History, Context, Culture), JHU Press, 2005. p. 182: "The ninth-century Persian alchemist Jabir ibn Hayyan, also known as Geber, is accurately called pseudo-Geber since most of the works published under this name in the West were forgeries"
Aleksandr Sergeevich Povarennykh, Crystal Chemical Classification of Minerals, Plenum Press, 1972, v.1, ISBN 0-306-30348-5, p.4: "The first to give separate consideration to minerals and other inorganic substances were the following: The Persian alchemist Jabir (721–815)..."
George Sarton, Introduction to the History of Science, Pub. for the Carnegie Institution of Washington, by the Williams & Wilkins Company, 1931, vol.2 pt.1, page 1044: "Was Geber, as the name would imply, the Persian alchemist Jabir ibn Haiyan?"
Dan Merkur, in The psychoanalytic study of society (eds. Bryce Boyer, et al.), vol. 18, Routledge, ISBN 0-88163-161-2, page 352: "I would note that the Persian alchemist Jabir ibn Hayyan developed the theory that all metals consist of different 'balances' ..."
Anthony Gross, The Dissolution of the Lancastrian Kingship: Sir John Fortescue and the Crisis of Monarchy in Fifteenth-century England, Paul Watkins, 1996, ISBN 1-871615-90-9, p. 19: "Ever since the Seventy Books attributed to the Persian alchemist Jabir Ibn Hayyan had been translated into Latin ...."


^ a b "Abu Musa Jabir ibn Hayyan". Encyclopædia Britannica Online. Retrieved 11 February 2008. 
^ http://www.observerbd.com/2015/05/04/86811.php
^ Derewenda, Zygmunt S. (2007), "On wine, chirality and crystallography", Acta Crystallographica A, 64: 246–258 [247], Bibcode:2008AcCrA..64..246D, doi:10.1107/s0108767307054293, PMID 18156689 
^ John Warren (2005). "War and the Cultural Heritage of Iraq: a sadly mismanaged affair", Third World Quarterly, Volume 26, Issue 4 & 5, p. 815-830.
^ Dr. A. Zahoor (1997). JABIR IBN HAIYAN (Geber) Archived 30 June 2008 at the Wayback Machine.. University of Indonesia.
^ a b c d e Brabner, Tod (2005). "Jabir ibn Hayyam (Geber)". In Thomas F. Glick; Steven John Livesey; Faith Wallis. Medieval Science, Technology, and Medicine: An Encyclopedia. Psychology Press. pp. 279–281. ISBN 978-0-415-96930-7. 
^ Principe, Lawrence (2013). "2". The Secrets of Alchemy. Chicago: University of Chicago. ISBN 0226682951. 
^ a b c d e Haq, Syed Nomanul (28 February 1995). Names, Natures and Things: The Alchemist Jabir Ibn Hayyan and His Kitab Al-Ahjar (Book of Stones). Springer. ISBN 978-0-7923-3254-1. 
^ a b c d S.N. Nasr, "Life Sciences, Alchemy and Medicine", The Cambridge History of Iran, Cambridge, Volume 4, 1975, p. 412: "Jabir is entitled in the traditional sources as al-Azdi, al-Kufi, al-Tusi, al-Sufi. There is a debate as to whether he was a Persian from Khorasan who later went to Kufa or whether he was, as some have suggested, of Syrian origin and later lived in Iran".
^ a b c d Holmyard, Eric John (1931). Makers of Chemistry. The Clarendon press. 
^ Richard Russell (1928). Holmyard, E.J., ed. The Works of Geber. ISBN 0-7661-0015-4. 
^ Henry Corbin, "The Voyage and the Messenger: Iran and Philosophy", Translated by Joseph H. Rowe, North Atlantic Books, 1998. p. 45: "The Nisba al-Azdin certainly does not necessarily indicate Arab origin. Geber seems to have been a client of the Azd tribe established in Kufa"
^ E. J. Holmyard (ed.) The Arabic Works of Jabir ibn Hayyan, translated by Richard Russell in 1678. New York, E. P. Dutton (1928); Also Paris, P. Geuther.
^ Haq, Syed N. (1994). Names, Natures and Things. Dordrecht, The Netherlands: Boston Studies in the Philosophy of Science, Volume 158/ Kluwar Academic Publishers. pp. 14–20. ISBN 0-7923-3254-7. 
^ a b "Iranica JAʿFAR AL-ṢĀDEQ iv. And Esoteric sciences". Retrieved 11 June 2011. The historical relations between Jaʿfar al-Ṣādeq and Jāber b. Ḥayyān remain very controversial, as they are linked to still unresolved questions about dating, composition, and authorship of the texts attributed to Jāber. Scholars such as Julius Ruska, Paul Kraus, and Pierre Lory consider Jaʿfar al-Ṣādeq’s involvement in the transmission of alchemical knowledge as a literary fiction, whereas Fuat Sezgin, Toufic Fahd, and Nomanul Haq are rather inclined to accept the existence of alchemical activity in Medina in Jaʿfar al-Ṣādeq’s time, although they remain cautious regarding the authenticity of the attribution of the Jaberian corpus to Jāber b. Ḥayyān and of the alchemical works to Jaʿfar al-Ṣādeq (Ruska, 1924, pp. 40–52; idem, 1927, pp. 264–66; Kraus, I, pp. LV-LVII; Lory, pp. 14–21, 57–59, 101–7; Sezgin, I, p. 529, IV, pp. 128–31; Fahd, 1970, pp. 139–41; Nomanul Haq, pp. 3–47). 
^ Josef W. Meri; Jere L. Bacharach (2006). Medieval Islamic Civilization. Taylor and Francis. p. 25. ISBN 0-415-96691-4. 
^ Jabir Ibn Hayyan. Vol. 1. Le corpus des ecrits jabiriens. George Olms Verlag, 1989
^ Paul Kraus, Jabir ibn Hayyan: Contribution à l'histoire des idées scientifiques dans l'Islam, cited Robert Irwin, 'The long siesta' in Times Literary Supplement, 25/1/2008 p.8
^ Julian, Franklyn, Dictionary of the Occult, Kessinger Publishing, 2003, ISBN 0-7661-2816-4, ISBN 978-0-7661-2816-3, p. 9.
^ a b KIMIĀ ("Alchemy"), Encyclopedia Iranica, Retrieved on 19 November 2017.
^ "History of Islamic Science" (PDF). University of Southern California. Archived from the original (PDF) on 7 October 2013. 
^ Holmyard, E. J. (1931). Makers of Chemistry. Oxford: Clarendon Press. pp. 57–8. 
^ Norris, John (March 2006). "The Mineral Exhalation Theory of Metallogenesis in Pre-Modern Mineral Science". Ambix. Society for the History of Alchemy and Chemistry. 53: 43–65. doi:10.1179/174582306X93183. 
^ Georges C. Anawati, "Arabic alchemy", in R. Rashed (1996), The Encyclopaedia of the History of Arabic Science, Vol. 3, p. 853-902 [866].
^ Schufle, J. A.; Thomas, George (Winter 1971). "Equivalent Weights from Bergman's Data on Phlogiston Content of Metals". Isis. 62 (4): 500. doi:10.1086/350792. 
^ a b Holmyard, E. J. (1931). Makers of Chemistry. Oxford: Clarendon Press. p. 60. 
^ a b Ansari, Farzana Latif; Qureshi, Rumana; Qureshi, Masood Latif (1998). Electrocyclic reactions: from fundamentals to research. Wiley-VCH. p. 2. ISBN 3-527-29755-3. 
^ Will Durant (1980). The Age of Faith (The Story of Civilization, Volume 4), p. 162-186. Simon & Schuster. ISBN 0-671-01200-2.
^ a b c Ḥusain, Muẓaffar. Islam's Contribution to Science. Page 94.
^ Ismail al-Faruqi and Lois Lamya al-Faruqi (1986), The Cultural Atlas of Islam, p. 328, New York
^ a b Ahmad Y. Al-Hassan, Cultural contacts in building a universal civilisation: Islamic contributions, published by O.I.C. Research Centre for Islamic History, Art and Culture in 2005 and available online at History of Science and Technology in Islam
^ a b Forbes, Robert James (1970). A short history of the art of distillation: from the beginnings up to the death of Cellier Blumenthal. BRILL. ISBN 978-90-04-00617-1. Retrieved 26 June 2010. 
^ Ahmad Y. al-Hassan (2001), Science and Technology in Islam: Technology and applied sciences, pages 65-69, UNESCO
^ Hassan, Ahmad Y. "Alcohol and the Distillation of Wine in Arabic Sources". History of Science and Technology in Islam. Retrieved 2014-04-19. 
^ The Economist: "Liquid fire - The Arabs discovered how to distil alcohol. They still do it best, say some" December 18, 2003
^ Ragai, Jehane (1992). "The Philosopher's Stone: Alchemy and Chemistry". Journal of Comparative Poetics. 12 (Metaphor and Allegory in the Middle Ages): 58–77. doi:10.2307/521636. 
^ Holmyard, E. J. (1924). "Maslama al-Majriti and the Rutbatu'l-Hakim". Isis. 6 (3): 293–305. doi:10.1086/358238. 
^ Kraus, Paul, Jâbir ibn Hayyân, Contribution à l'histoire des idées scientifiques dans l'Islam. I. Le corpus des écrits jâbiriens. II. Jâbir et la science grecque,. Cairo (1942–1943). Repr. By Fuat Sezgin, (Natural Sciences in Islam. 67–68), Frankfurt. 2002
^ gibberish, Grose 1811 Dictionary
^ Seaborg, Glenn T. (March 1980). "Our heritage of the elements". Metallurgical and Materials Transactions B. Springer Boston. 11 (1): 5–19. Bibcode:1980MTB....11....5S. doi:10.1007/bf02657166. 
^ Arthur John Hopkins, Alchemy Child of Greek Philosophy, Published by Kessinger Publishing, LLC, 2007, ISBN 0-548-13547-9, p. 140
^ "Geber". Encyclopædia Britannica Online. Retrieved 9 December 2008. 
^ Openness, Secrecy, Authorship: Technical Arts and the Culture of Knowledge from Antiquity to the Renaissance By Pamela O. Long Edition: illustrated Published by JHU Press, 2001 ISBN 0-8018-6606-5, ISBN 978-0-8018-6606-7
^ a b Hamed Abdel-reheem Ead. "Alchemy in Islamic Times". Retrieved 23 May 2016. 
^ Ihde, Aaron John (1 April 1984). The development of modern chemistry. Courier Dover Publications. p. 16. ISBN 978-0-486-64235-2. Retrieved 14 June 2010. 
^ Makers of Chemistry, by Eric John Holmyard,... - Eric John Holmyard - Google Boeken. Books.google.com. Retrieved 15 October 2012. 
^ P. Crosland, Maurice, Historical Studies in the Language of Chemistry, Courier Dover Publications, 2004 1962, ISBN 0-486-43802-3, ISBN 978-0-486-43802-3, p. 15
^ Long, Pamela O. (2001). Openness, secrecy, authorship: technical arts and the culture of knowledge from antiquity to the Renaissance. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press. ISBN 0-8018-6606-5. 
^ Hugh Chisholm, ed. (1910). "Geber". Encyclopædia Britannica Eleventh Edition (11th ed.). pp. 545–546. 
^ An authoritative summary and analysis of current scholarship on this question may be found in Lawrence M. Principe, The Secrets of Alchemy, University of Chicago Press, 2013, pp. 33-45 and 54-58.
^ a b Ahmad Y. al-Hassan, Critical-Issues Studies in al-Kimya′: Critical Issues in Latin and Arabic Alchemy and Chemistry, published as book by Olms in 2009 and as article by Centaurus journal in 2011. Online versions are available at Geber Problem @ History of Science and Technology in Islam and at Scribd.
^ William R. Newman, The Summa Perfectionis of Pseudo-Geber. A Critical Edition, Translation and Study, Leyde: E. J. Brill, 1991 (Collection de travaux de l'Académie Internationale d'Histoire des Sciences, 35).
^ Quote from Marcellin Berthelot at 1911encyclopedia.org Archived 19 March 2007 at the Wayback Machine..
^ Coelho, Paulo. The Alchemist. ISBN 0-06-112241-6, p. 82.
^ S.H.I.E.L.D. v1 #3


External links[edit]

Plessner, M. (2008) [1970–80]. "Jābir Ibn Hayyān". Complete Dictionary of Scientific Biography. Encyclopedia.com. 
Britannica
Encarta Encyclopedia (Archived 2009-10-31)
Columbia Encyclopedia
Article at Islam Online
Article at Famous Muslims
Article at Islam Online
Article at Al Shindagah (includes an extract of Jabir's The Discovery of secrets)
Online Galleries, History of Science Collections, University of Oklahoma Libraries[dead link] High resolution images of works by Jàbir ibn Hayyan in .jpg and .tiff format.







v
t
e


Alchemy and chemistry in medieval Islam



Alchemists




7th century



Khālid ibn Yazīd





8th century



Harbi al-Himyari
Ja'far al-Sadiq





9th century



Jābir ibn Hayyān
Abbas ibn Firnas
Ahmad ibn Yahya al-Baladhuri
Ziryab





10th century



Ibn Wahshiyya
Muhammed ibn Umail al-Tamimi
Al-Razi
Al-Farabi
Ibn al-Nadim
Al-Majriti
Abu Mansur Muwaffaq





11th century



Ibn al-Wafid
Al-Bīrūnī
Avicenna
Al-Khwarizmi al-Khati
Miskawayh
Al-Mu'izz ibn Badis
Ahmad ibn 'Imad al-Din





12th century



Al-Khazini
Artephius
Al-Tughrai
Al-Nabarawi
Abu'l Hasan ibn Arfa Ra'a
Abu al-Salt





13th century



Ibn al-Baitar
Abu al-Abbas al-Nabati
Al-Kātibī
Attar of Nishapur
Al-Simawi
Hasan al-Rammah
Mansur al-Kamili





14th century



Ibn Rassam
Al-Jaldaki
Abul Ashba ibn Tammam








Concepts



Takwin
Philosopher's stone
Al-iksīr
Alembic
Athanor





Works



Kitab al-Kimya
Kitab al-Sab'een












v
t
e


Medicine in the medieval Islamic world



Physicians




7th century



Al-Harith ibn Kalada and his son
Abu Hafsa Yazid
Bukhtishu
Masarjawaih
Ibn Abi Ramtha al-Tamimi
Rufaida Al-Aslamia
Ibn Uthal





8th century



Bukhtishu family
Ja'far al-Sadiq





9th century



Ali al-Ridha
Albubather
Bukhtishu family
Jabril ibn Bukhtishu
Jābir ibn Hayyān
Hunayn ibn Ishaq and his son
Yahya ibn Sarafyun
Al-Kindi
Masawaiyh
Shapur ibn Sahl
Ali ibn Sahl Rabban al-Tabari
Al-Ruhawi
Yuhanna ibn Bukhtishu
Salmawaih ibn Bunan





10th century



Qusta ibn Luqa
Abu ul-Ala Shirazi
Abul Hasan al-Tabari
Al-Natili
Qumri
Abu Zayd al-Balkhi
Isaac Israeli ben Solomon
'Ali ibn al-'Abbas al-Majusi
Abu Sahl 'Isa ibn Yahya al-Masihi
Muvaffak
Muhammad ibn Zakariya al-Razi
Ibn Juljul
Al-Tamimi, the physician
Abu al-Qasim al-Zahrawi
Ibn al-Jazzar
Al-Kaŝkarī
Ibn Abi al-Ashʿath
Ibn al-Batriq
Ibrahim ibn Baks
Abu al-Qasim Muqane'i
Abu Bakr Rabee Ibn Ahmad Al-Akhawyni Bokhari





11th century



Abu 'Ubayd al-Juzjani
Ibn al-Haytham
Al-Biruni
Ali ibn Ridwan
Avicenna
Ephraim ibn al-Za'faran
Ibn al-Wafid
Abdollah ibn Bukhtishu
Ibn Butlan
Ibn al-Kattani
Ibn Jazla
Masawaih al-Mardini
Ali ibn Yusuf al-Ilaqi
Ibn Al-Thahabi
Ibn Abi Sadiq
Ali ibn Isa al-Kahhal
Ibn Hindu





12th century



Abu al-Bayan ibn al-Mudawwar
Ahmad ibn Farrokh
Ibn Hubal
Zayn al-Din Gorgani
Maimonides
Serapion the Younger
Ibn Zuhr
Ya'qub ibn Ishaq al-Israili
Abu Jafar ibn Harun al-Turjali
Averroes
Ibn Tufail
Al-Ghafiqi
Ibn Abi al-Hakam
Abu'l-Barakāt al-Baghdādī
Al-Samawal al-Maghribi
Ibn al-Tilmīdh
Ibn Jumay‘





13th century



Sa'ad al-Dawla
Al-Shahrazuri
Rashidun al-Suri
Amin al-Din Rashid al-Din Vatvat
Abraham ben Moses ben Maimon
Da'ud Abu al-Fadl
Al-Dakhwar
Ibn Abi Usaibia
Joseph ben Judah of Ceuta
Abd al-Latif al-Baghdadi (medieval writer)
Ibn al-Nafis
Zakariya al-Qazwini
Najib ad-Din-e-Samarqandi
Qutb al-Din al-Shirazi
Ibn al-Quff





14th century



Muhammad ibn Mahmud Amuli
Al-Nagawri
Aqsara'i
Zayn-e-Attar
Mansur ibn Ilyas
Jaghmini
Mas‘ud ibn Muhammad Sijzi
Najm al-Din Mahmud ibn Ilyas al-Shirazi
Nakhshabi
Sadid al-Din al-Kazaruni
Yusuf ibn Ismail al-Kutubi
Ibn al-Khatib
Rashid-al-Din Hamadani





15th century



Abu Sa'id al-Afif
Muhammad Ali Astarabadi
Husayni Isfahani
Burhan-ud-din Kermani
Şerafeddin Sabuncuoğlu
Muhammad ibn Yusuf al-Harawi
Nurbakhshi
Shaykh Muhammad ibn Thaleb





16th century



Hakim-e-Gilani
Abul Qasim ibn Mohammed al-Ghassani
Taqi ad-Din Muhammad ibn Ma'ruf
Dawud al-Antaki
Sultan Ali Khorasani








Concepts



Psychology
Ophthalmology





Works



Al-Risalah al-Dhahabiah
The Canon of Medicine
Anatomy Charts of the Arabs
The Book of Healing
Book of the Ten Treatises of the Eye
De Gradibus
Al-Tasrif
Zakhireye Khwarazmshahi
Adab al-Tabib
Kamel al-Sanaat al-Tibbyya
Al-Hawi





Centers



Bimaristan
Nur al-Din Bimaristan
Al-'Adudi





Influences



Ancient Greek medicine





Influenced



Medical Renaissance
Ibn Sina Academy of Medieval Medicine and Sciences












v
t
e


People of Khorasan



Scientists



Abu Maʿshar
Abu Wafa
Abu Ubayd Juzjani
Abu Zayd Balkhi
Alfraganus
Ali Qushji
Avicenna
Birjandi
Biruni
Hāsib Marwazī
Ibn Hayyān
Khāzin
Khāzinī
Khojandi
Khwarizmi
Nasawi
Nasir al-Din al-Tusi
Omar Khayyam
Sharaf al-Dīn al-Ṭūsī
Sijzi





Philosophers



Algazel
Amiri
Avicenna
Farabi
Haji Bektash Veli
Nasir Khusraw
Qushayri
Sijistani
Shahrastani





Islamic scholars



Abu Dawood
Abu Hanifa
Ansari
Baghavi
Bayhaqi
Boharsi
Bukhari
Ghazali
Hākim Nishapuri
Juwayni
Marghinani
Maturidi
Ibn Mubarak
Mulla al-Qari
Muqatil
Muslim
Nasafi
Nasa'i
Al-Qushayri
Razi
Shaykh Tusi
Taftazani
Tha'labi Nishapuri
Tirmidhi
Zamakhshari





Poets and artists



Abū-Sa'īd Abul-Khayr
Anvari
Asadi Tusi
Attar Nishapuri
Behzad
Daqiqi
Farrukhi Sistani
Ferdowsi
Jami
Nasir Khusraw
Rabia Balkhi
Rudaki
Rumi
Sanā'ī





Historians and
political scientists



Abu'l-Fadl Bayhaqi
Abu'l-Hasan Isfaraini
Abu'l-Ma'ali Nasrallah
Abu Muslim
Abu Sa'id Gardezi
Ali-Shir Nava'i
Ata-Malik Juvayni
Aufi
Muhammad Bal'ami
Goharshad Begum
Ibn Khordadbeh
Khalid ibn Barmak
Nizam al-Mulk
Tahir ibn Husayn
Yahya Barmaki
Ahmad ibn Nizam al-Mulk
Shihab al-Nasawi

Category:People from Khorasan








Authority control



WorldCat Identities
VIAF: 3268479
LCCN: n85356785
ISNI: 0000 0001 1777 1600
GND: 118864718
SELIBR: 192315
SUDOC: 026877376
BNF: cb11903785q (data)
NLA: 49784529
NKC: mzk2003198569










 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Jabir_ibn_Hayyan&oldid=812659844"					
Categories: 721 births815 deathsPersian alchemistsAlchemists of medieval IslamMedieval Arab astrologersMedieval Persian astrologersArab chemistsPersian chemistsMedieval Arab philosophersHermeticismArab people of Iranian descentIranian emigrants to IraqMedieval Arab physiciansMedieval Persian physiciansPhysicians of medieval IslamAstrologers of medieval IslamPeople from Tus, IranPeople from MashhadDiscoverers of chemical elementsIranian chemistsBanu Bariq9th-century philosophers8th-century Iranian people9th-century Iranian people9th-century astrologers9th-century scientists9th-century physiciansMuslim InventorsHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback linksArticles containing Arabic-language textArticles containing Persian-language textAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from May 2009Articles with unsourced statements from March 2014Articles with unsourced statements from July 2014All pages needing factual verificationWikipedia articles needing factual verification from June 2011All articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrasesArticles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from July 2014All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from August 2017Use dmy dates from February 2011Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with SELIBR identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersWikipedia articles with NLA identifiers 
