Nagarjuna - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

For other uses, see Nagarjuna (disambiguation).


Nāgārjuna



Golden statue of Nāgārjuna at Kagyu Samye Ling Monastery, Scotland.



Born
c. 150 CE
South India[1]


Died
c. 250 CE
India


Occupation
Buddhist teacher and philosopher


Known for
Credited with founding the Madhyamaka school of Mahāyāna Buddhism




Part of a series on


Eastern philosophy






Aryadeva and Nagarjuna
Adi Shankara




Laozi and Confucius








Philosophers



Abhinavagupta
Adi Shankara
Agastya
Aruni
Ashtavakra
Atri
Aurobindo
Badarayana
Buddha
Confucius
Chanakya
Dignaga
Dharmakirti
Dogen
Fazang
Gaudapada
Gangesha Upadhyaya
Han Yu
Haribhadra
Kanada
Kapila
Kitaro Nishida
Kukai
Laozi
Longchenpa
Mozi
Mencius
Jaimini
Jizang
Nagarjuna
Gotama
Madhvacharya
Patanjali
Ramanuja
Sakya Pandita
Shang Yang
Sun Tzu
Tsongkhapa
Umaswati
Vasubandhu
Vashistha
Vivekananda
Wang Yangming
Xiong Shili
Yajnavalkya
Yi Hwang
Yi I
Zhuangzi
Guifeng Zongmi
Zhu Xi
Zhiyi









Traditions



Advaita
Ājīvika
Buddhist
Charvaka
Confucian
Daoist
Dvaita
Kyoto School
Jain
Samkhya
Maoism
Madhyamika
Mimamsa
Nyaya
Navya-Nyāya
New Confucianism
Vedanta
Pratyabhijna
Tantra
Legalist
Vaisheshika
Vedanta
Yoga
Zen









Topics



Ahimsa
Atomism
Atman

Ātman (Hinduism)
Ātman (Buddhism)
Ātman (Jainism)


Anatta
Anicca
Artha
Anekantavada
Brahman
Dharma
De
Dukkha
Filial piety
Indian logic
Karma
Kama
Maya
Metta
Moksha
Nirvana
Nondualism
Samadhi
Pramana
Pratītyasamutpāda
Qi
Ren
Emptiness
Li
Tao
Yoga
Yin yang
Wu wei










v
t
e





Nāgārjuna (c. 150 – c. 250 CE) is widely considered one of the most important Mahayana philosophers.[2] Along with his disciple Āryadeva, he is considered to be the founder of the Madhyamaka school of Mahāyāna Buddhism. Nāgārjuna is also credited with developing the philosophy of the Prajñāpāramitā sūtras and, in some sources, with having revealed these scriptures in the world, having recovered them from the nāgas (water spirits often depicted in the form of serpent-like humans). Furthermore, he is traditionally supposed to have written several treatises on rasayana as well as serving a term as the head of Nālandā.[3]



Contents


1 History
2 Writings

2.1 Mūlamadhyamakakārikā
2.2 Other attributed works


3 Philosophy

3.1 Sunyata
3.2 Two truths
3.3 Causality
3.4 Relativity
3.5 Nāgārjuna as Ayurvedic physician


4 Iconography
5 See also
6 References
7 Bibliography
8 External links



History[edit]
Very little is reliably known of the life of Nāgārjuna, since the surviving accounts were written in Chinese[4] and Tibetan centuries after his death. According to some accounts, Nāgārjuna was originally from South India.[1][5] Some scholars believe that Nāgārjuna was an advisor to a king of the Satavahana dynasty.[1] Archaeological evidence at Amarāvatī indicates that if this is true, the king may have been Yajña Śrī Śātakarṇi, who ruled between 167 and 196 CE. On the basis of this association, Nāgārjuna is conventionally placed at around 150–250 CE.[1]
According to a 4th/5th-century biography translated by Kumārajīva, Nāgārjuna was born into a Brahmin family[6] in Vidarbha[7][8][9] (a region of Maharashtra) and later became a Buddhist.
Some sources claim that in his later years, Nāgārjuna lived on the mountain of Śrīparvata near the city that would later be called Nāgārjunakoṇḍa ("Hill of Nāgārjuna").[10] The ruins of Nāgārjunakoṇḍa are located in Guntur district, Andhra Pradesh. The Caitika and Bahuśrutīya nikāyas are known to have had monasteries in Nāgārjunakoṇḍa.[10]
Writings[edit]
There exist a number of influential texts attributed to Nāgārjuna though, as there are many pseudepigrapha attributed to him, lively controversy exists over which are his authentic works.
Mūlamadhyamakakārikā[edit]
Main article: Mūlamadhyamakakārikā
The Mūlamadhyamakakārikā is Nāgārjuna's best-known work. It is "not only a grand commentary on the Buddha's discourse to Kaccayana,[11] the only discourse cited by name, but also a detailed and careful analysis of most of the important discourses included in the Nikayas and the agamas, especially those of the Atthakavagga of the Sutta-nipata.[12]

Utilizing the Buddha's theory of "dependent arising" (pratitya-samutpada), Nagarjuna demonstrated the futility of [...] metaphysical speculations. His method of dealing with such metaphysics is referred to as "middle way" (madhyama pratipad). It is the middle way that avoided the substantialism of the Sarvastivadins as well as the nominalism of the Sautrantikas.[13]

In the Mūlamadhyamakakārikā, "[A]ll experienced phenomena are empty (sunya). This did not mean that they are not experienced and, therefore, non-existent; only that they are devoid of a permanent and eternal substance (svabhava) because, like a dream, they are mere projections of human consciousness. Since these imaginary fictions are experienced, they are not mere names (prajnapti)."[13]
Other attributed works[edit]
According to one view, that of Christian Lindtner,[14] the works definitely written by Nāgārjuna are:

Mūlamadhyamaka-kārikā (Fundamental Verses of the Middle Way)
Śūnyatāsaptati (Seventy Verses on Emptiness)
Vigrahavyāvartanī (The End of Disputes)
Vaidalyaprakaraṇa (Pulverizing the Categories)
Vyavahārasiddhi (Proof of Convention)
Yuktiṣāṣṭika (Sixty Verses on Reasoning)
Catuḥstava (Hymn to the Absolute Reality)
Ratnāvalī (Precious Garland)
Pratītyasamutpādahṝdayakārika (Constituents of Dependent Arising)
Sūtrasamuccaya
Bodhicittavivaraṇa (Exposition of the Enlightened Mind)
Suhṛllekha (Letter to a Good Friend)
Bodhisaṃbhāra (Requisites of Enlightenment)

Buston considers the first six to be the main treatises of Nāgārjuna, while according to Taaranaatha only the first five are the works of Nāgārjuna. TRV Murti considers Ratnaavali, Pratitya Samutpaada Hridaya and Sutra Samuccaya to be works of Nāgārjuna as the first two are quoted profusely by Chandrakirti and the third by Shantideva.[15]
In addition to works mentioned above, several others are attributed to Nāgārjuna. There is an ongoing, lively controversy over which of those works are authentic. Contemporary research suggest that these works belong to a significantly later period, either to late 8th or early 9th century CE, and hence can not be authentic works of Nāgārjuna.
However, several works considered important in esoteric Buddhism are attributed to Nāgārjuna and his disciples by traditional historians like Tāranātha from 17th century Tibet. These historians try to account for chronological difficulties with various theories. For example, a propagation of later writings via mystical revelation. For a useful summary of this tradition, see Wedemeyer 2007.
Lindtner considers that the Māhaprajñāparamitopadeśa "Commentary on the Great Perfection of Wisdom" is not a genuine work of Nāgārjuna. This work is only attested in a Chinese translation by Kumārajīva.There is much discussion as to whether this is a work of Nāgārjuna, or someone else. Étienne Lamotte, who translated one third of the work into French, felt that it was the work of a North Indian bhikṣu of the Sarvāstivāda school who later became a convert to the Mahayana. The Chinese scholar-monk Yin Shun felt that it was the work of a South Indian and that Nāgārjuna was quite possibly the author. These two views are not necessarily in opposition and a South Indian Nāgārjuna could well have studied the northern Sarvāstivāda. Neither of the two felt that it was composed by Kumārajīva, which others have suggested.
Philosophy[edit]




Statue of Nāgārjuna in Tibetan monastery near Kullu, India


From studying his writings, it is clear that Nāgārjuna was conversant with many of the Śrāvaka philosophies and with the Mahāyāna tradition. However, determining Nāgārjuna's affiliation with a specific nikāya is difficult, considering much of this material has been lost. If the most commonly accepted attribution of texts (that of Christian Lindtner) holds, then he was clearly a Māhayānist, but his philosophy holds assiduously to the Śrāvaka Tripiṭaka, and while he does make explicit references to Mahāyāna texts, he is always careful to stay within the parameters set out by the Śrāvaka canon.
Nāgārjuna may have arrived at his positions from a desire to achieve a consistent exegesis of the Buddha's doctrine as recorded in the āgamas. In the eyes of Nāgārjuna, the Buddha was not merely a forerunner, but the very founder of the Madhyamaka system.[16] David Kalupahana sees Nāgārjuna as a successor to Moggaliputta-Tissa in being a champion of the middle-way and a reviver of the original philosophical ideals of the Buddha.[17]
Nāgārjuna assumes a knowledge of the definitions of the sixteen categories as given in the Nyaya Sutras, the chief text of the Hindu Nyaya school, and wrote a treatise on the pramanas where he reduced the syllogism of five members into one of three. In the Vigrahavyavartani Karika, Nāgārjuna criticizes the Nyaya theory of pramanas (means of knowledge) [18]
Nāgārjuna was fully acquainted with the classical Hindu philosophies of Samkhya and even the Vaiseshika.[19]
Because of the high degree of similarity between Nāgārjuna's philosophy and Pyrrhonism, particularly the surviving works of Sextus Empiricus[20] Thomas McEvilley suspects that Nāgārjuna was influenced by Greek Pyrrhonists texts imported into India.[21] Pyrrho of Elis (c. 360-c. 270 BCE), who is usually credited with founding this school of skeptical philosophy, was himself influenced by Indian philosophy, when he traveled to India with Alexander the Great's army and studied with the gymnosophists.
Sunyata[edit]
Nāgārjuna's major thematic focus is the concept of śūnyatā, or "emptiness," which brings together other key Buddhist doctrines, particularly anātman "not-self" and pratītyasamutpāda "dependent origination", to refute the metaphysics of some of his contemporaries. For Nāgārjuna, as for the Buddha in the early texts, it is not merely sentient beings that are "selfless" or non-substantial; all phenomena (dhammas) are without any svabhāva, literally "own-being", "self-nature", or "inherent existence" and thus without any underlying essence. They are empty of being independently existent; thus the heterodox theories of svabhāva circulating at the time were refuted on the basis of the doctrines of early Buddhism. This is so because all things arise always dependently: not by their own power, but by depending on conditions leading to their coming into existence, as opposed to being.
Nāgārjuna means by real any entity which has a nature of its own (svabhāva), which is not produced by causes (akrtaka), which is not dependent on anything else (paratra nirapeksha).[22]
Chapter 24 verse 14 of the Mūlamadhyamakakārikā provides one of Nāgārjuna's most famous quotations on emptiness and co-arising:[23]

sarvaṃ ca yujyate tasya śūnyatā yasya yujyate
sarvaṃ na yujyate tasya śūnyaṃ yasya na yujyate
All is possible when emptiness is possible.
Nothing is possible when emptiness is impossible.

As part of his analysis of the emptiness of phenomena in the Mūlamadhyamakakārikā, Nāgārjuna critiques svabhāva in several different concepts. He discusses the problems of positing any sort of inherent essence to causation, movement, change and personal identity. Nāgārjuna makes use of the Indian logical tool of the tetralemma to attack any essentialist conceptions. Nāgārjuna’s logical analysis is based on four basic propositions:

All things (dharma) exist: affirmation of being, negation of non-being
All things (dharma) do not exist: affirmation of non-being, negation of being
All things (dharma) both exist and do not exist: both affirmation and negation
All things (dharma) neither exist nor do not exist: neither affirmation nor negation [24]

To say that all things are 'empty' is to deny any kind of ontological foundation, therefore Nāgārjuna's view is often seen as a kind of ontological anti-foundationalism[25] or a metaphysical anti-realism.[26]
Understanding the nature of the emptiness of phenomena is simply a means to an end, which is nirvana. Thus Nāgārjuna's philosophical project is ultimately a soteriological one meant to correct our everyday cognitive processes which mistakenly posits svabhāva on the flow of experience.
Some scholars such as Fyodor Shcherbatskoy and T.R.V. Murti held that Nāgārjuna was the inventor of the Shunyata doctrine, however, more recent work by scholars such as Choong Mun-keat, Yin Shun and Dhammajothi Thero has argued that Nāgārjuna was not an innovator by putting forth this theory,[27][28][29] but that, in the words of Shi Huifeng, "the connection between emptiness and dependent origination is not an innovation or creation of Nāgārjuna."[30]
Two truths[edit]
Nāgārjuna was also instrumental in the development of the two truths doctrine, which claims that there are two levels of truth in Buddhist teaching, the ultimate truth (paramārtha satya) and the conventional or superficial truth (saṃvṛtisatya). The ultimate truth to Nāgārjuna is the truth that everything is empty of essence,[31] this includes emptiness itself ('the emptiness of emptiness'). While some (Murti, 1955) have interpreted this by positing Nāgārjuna as a Neo-Kantian and thus making ultimate truth a metaphysical noumenon or an "ineffable ultimate that transcends the capacities of discursive reason",[32] others such as Mark Siderits and Jay L. Garfield have argued that Nāgārjuna's view is that "the ultimate truth is that there is no ultimate truth" (Siderits) and that Nāgārjuna is a "semantic anti-dualist" who posits that there are only conventional truths.[32] Hence according to Garfield:

Suppose that we take a conventional entity, such as a table. We analyze it to demonstrate its emptiness, finding that there is no table apart from its parts […]. So we conclude that it is empty. But now let us analyze that emptiness […]. What do we find? Nothing at all but the table’s lack of inherent existence. […]. To see the table as empty […] is to see the table as conventional, as dependent.[33]

In articulating this notion in the Mūlamadhyamakakārikā, Nāgārjuna drew on an early source in the Kaccānagotta Sutta,[34] which distinguishes definitive meaning (nītārtha) from interpretable meaning (neyārtha):

By and large, Kaccayana, this world is supported by a polarity, that of existence and non-existence. But when one reads the origination of the world as it actually is with right discernment, "non-existence" with reference to the world does not occur to one. When one reads the cessation of the world as it actually is with right discernment, "existence" with reference to the world does not occur to one.
By and large, Kaccayana, this world is in bondage to attachments, clingings (sustenances), and biases. But one such as this does not get involved with or cling to these attachments, clingings, fixations of awareness, biases, or obsessions; nor is he resolved on "my self". He has no uncertainty or doubt that just stress, when arising, is arising; stress, when passing away, is passing away. In this, his knowledge is independent of others. It's to this extent, Kaccayana, that there is right view.
"Everything exists": That is one extreme. "Everything doesn't exist": That is a second extreme. Avoiding these two extremes, the Tathagata teaches the Dhamma via the middle...[35]

The version linked to is the one found in the nikayas, and is slightly different from the one found in the Samyuktagama. Both contain the concept of teaching via the middle between the extremes of existence and non-existence.[36][37] Nagarjuna does not make reference to "everything" when he quotes the agamic text in his Mūlamadhyamakakārikā.[38]
Causality[edit]
See also: Causality
Jay L. Garfield describes that Nāgārjuna approached causality from the four noble truths and dependent origination. Nāgārjuna distinguished two dependent origination views in a causal process, that which causes effects and that which causes conditions. This is predicated in the two truth doctrine, as conventional truth and ultimate truth held together, in which both are empty in existence. The distinction between effects and conditions is controversial. In Nāgārjuna's approach, cause means an event or state that has power to bring an effect. Conditions, refer to proliferating causes that bring a further event, state or process; without a metaphysical commitment to an occult connection between explaining and explanans. He argues nonexistent causes and various existing conditions. The argument draws from unreal causal power. Things conventional exist and are ultimately nonexistent to rest in the middle way in both causal existence and nonexistence as casual emptiness within the Mūlamadhyamakakārikā doctrine. Although seeming strange to Westerners, this is seen as an attack on a reified view of causality.[39]
Relativity[edit]
Nāgārjuna also taught the idea of relativity; in the Ratnāvalī, he gives the example that shortness exists only in relation to the idea of length. The determination of a thing or object is only possible in relation to other things or objects, especially by way of contrast. He held that the relationship between the ideas of "short" and "long" is not due to intrinsic nature (svabhāva). This idea is also found in the Pali Nikāyas and Chinese Āgamas, in which the idea of relativity is expressed similarly: "That which is the element of light ... is seen to exist on account of [in relation to] darkness; that which is the element of good is seen to exist on account of bad; that which is the element of space is seen to exist on account of form."[40]
Nāgārjuna as Ayurvedic physician[edit]
According to Frank John Ninivaggi, Nāgārjuna was also a practitioner of Ayurveda. First described in the Sanskrit medical treatise Sushruta Samhita, of which he was the compiler of the redaction, many of his conceptualisations, such as his descriptions of the circulatory system and blood tissue (described as rakta dhātu) and his pioneering work on the therapeutic value of specially treated minerals knowns as bhasmas, which earned him the title of the "father of iatrochemistry".[41]
Iconography[edit]
Nāgārjuna is often depicted in composite form comprising human and nāga characteristics. Often the nāga-aspect forms a canopy crowning and shielding his human head. The notion of the naga is found throughout Indian religious culture, and typically signifies an intelligent serpent or dragon, who is responsible for the rains, lakes and other bodies of water. In Buddhism, it is a synonym for a realised arhat, or wise person in general.[42]
See also[edit]

Acharya Nagarjuna University
Nagarjuna High School
Aryadeva
Buddhapālita
Buddhism
Kamalasila
Middle way
Śāntarakṣita
Sun Simiao
Yogachara-Madhyamaka

References[edit]



^ a b c d Kalupahana, David. A History of Buddhist Philosophy. 1992. p. 160
^ Garfield, Jay L. (1995), The Fundamental Wisdom of the Middle Way, Oxford: Oxford University Press
^ Hsing Yun, Xingyun, Tom Manzo, Shujan Cheng Infinite Compassion, Endless Wisdom: The Practice of the Bodhisattva Path Buddha's Light Publishing Hacienda Heights California
^ Rongxi, Li; Dalia, Albert A. (2002). The Lives of Great Monks and Nuns, Berkeley CA: Numata Center for Translation and Research, pp. 21–30
^ Buddhist Art & Antiquities of Himachal Pradesh By Omacanda Hāṇḍā (Page 97)
^ Notes on the Nagarjunikonda Inscriptions, Dutt, Nalinaksha. The Indian Historical Quarterly 7:3 1931.09 pp.633–653 "..Tibetan tradition which says that Nāgārjuna was born of a brahmin family of Vidarbha."
^ Geri Hockfield Malandra, Unfolding A Mandala: The Buddhist Cave Temples at Ellora, SUNY Press, 1993, p. 17
^ Shōhei Ichimura, Buddhist Critical Spirituality: Prajñā and Śūnyatā, Motilal Banarsidass Publishers (2001), p. 67
^ Bkra-śis-rnam-rgyal (Dwags-po Paṇ-chen), Takpo Tashi Namgyal, Mahamudra: The Quintessence of Mind and Meditation, Motilal Banarsidass Publishers (1993), p. 443
^ a b Hirakawa, Akira. Groner, Paul. A History of Indian Buddhism: From Śākyamuni to Early Mahāyāna. 2007. p. 242
^ See SN 12.15 Kaccayanagotta Sutta: To Kaccayana Gotta (on Right View) Archived 29 March 2013 at the Wayback Machine.
^ Kalupahana 1994, p. 161.
^ a b Kalupahana 1992, p. 120.
^ Lindtner, C. (1982). Nagarjuniana: studies in the writings and philosophy of Nāgārjuna, Copenhagen: Akademisk forlag, page 11
^ TRV Murti, Central philosophy of Buddhism, pages 89-91
^ Christian Lindtner, Master of Wisdom. Dharma Publishing 1997, page 324.
^ David Kalupahana, Mulamadhyamakakarika of Nāgārjuna: The Philosophy of the Middle Way. Motilal Banarsidass, 2005, pages 2,5.
^ S.Radhakrishnan, Indian Philosophy Volume 1, page 644
^ TRV Murti, The central philosophy of Buddhism, page 92
^ Adrian Kuzminski, Pyrrhonism: How the Ancient Greeks Reinvented Buddhism 2008
^ Thomas McEvilley, The Shape of Ancient Thought 2002 pp499-505
^ S.Radhakrishnan, Indian philosophy Volume 1, page 607
^ Siderits, Mark; Katsura, Shoryu (2013). Nagarjuna's Middle Way: Mulamadhyamakakarika (Classics of Indian Buddhism). Wisdom Publications. pp. 175–176. ISBN 1614290504. 
^ Dumoulin, Heinrich (1998) Zen Buddhism: a history, India and China, Macmillan Publishing, 43
^ Westerhoff, Jan. Nagarjuna's Madhyamaka: A Philosophical Introduction.
^ Siderits, Mark. Nagarjuna as anti-realist, Journal of Indian Philosophy December 1988, Volume 16, Issue 4, pp 311-325.
^ Yìn Shùn, An Investigation into Emptiness (Kōng zhī Tànjìu 空之探究) (1985)
^ Choong, The Notion of Emptiness in Early Buddhism (1999)
^ Medawachchiye Dhammajothi Thero, The Concept of Emptiness in Pali Literature
^ Shi huifeng: “Dependent Origination = Emptiness”—Nāgārjuna’s Innovation?
^ Garfield, Jay. Empty Words: Buddhist Philosophy and Cross-cultural Interpretation, pp. 91.
^ a b Siderits, Mark, On the Soteriological Significance of Emptiness, Contemporary Buddhism, Vol. 4, No. 1, 2003.
^ Garfield, J. L. (2002). Empty words, pp. 38–39
^ Kalupahana, David J. (1986). Nāgārjuna: The Philosophy of the Middle Way. State University of New York Press. 
^ Thanissaro Bhikkhu (1997). SN 12.15 Kaccayanagotta Sutta: To Kaccayana Gotta (on Right View)
^ A.K. Warder, A Course in Indian Philosophy. Motilal Banarsidass Publ., 1998, pages 55–56
^ For the full text of both versions with analysis see pages 192–195 of Choong Mun-keat, The Fundamental Teachings of Early Buddhism: A comparative study basted on the Sutranga portion of the Pali Samyutta-Nikaya and the Chinese Samyuktagama; Harrassowitz Verlag, Weisbaden, 2000.
^ David Kalupahana, Nagarjuna: The Philosophy of the Middle Way. SUNY Press, 1986, page 232.
^ Garfield, Jay L (April 1994). "Dependent Arising and the Emptiness of Emptiness: Why Did Nāgārjuna Start with Causation?". Philosophy East and West. 44 (2): 219–250. doi:10.2307/1399593. JSTOR 1399593. 
^ David Kalupahana, Causality: The Central Philosophy of Buddhism. The University Press of Hawaii, 1975, pages 96–97. In the Nikayas the quote is found at SN 2.150.
^ Frank John Ninivaggi Ayurveda: A Comprehensive Guide to Traditional Indian Medicine for the West, page 23. (Praeger/Greenwood Press, 2008). ISBN 978-0-313-34837-2.
^ Berger, Douglas. "Nagarjuna (c. 150—c. 250)". Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Retrieved May 2, 2017. 



Bibliography[edit]

Garfield, Jay L. (1995), The Fundamental Wisdom of the Middle Way. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Garfield, Jay L. and Graham Priest (2003), “Nāgārjuna and the Limits of Thought”, Philosophy East and West 53 (January 2003): 1-21.
Jones, Richard H. (2014), Nagarjuna: Buddhism's Most Important Philosopher, 2nd ed. New York: Jackson Square Books.
Kalupahana, David J. (1986),The Philosophy of the Middle Way. Albany: SUNY Press.
Kalupahana, David J. (1992), The Principles of Buddhist Psychology, Delhi: ri Satguru Publications 
Kalupahana, David J. (1994), A history of Buddhist philosophy, Delhi: Motilal Banarsidass Publishers Private Limited 
Lamotte, E., Le Traite de la Grande Vertu de Sagesse, Vol I (1944), Vol II (1949), Vol III (1970), Vol IV (1976), Institut Orientaliste: Louvain-la-Neuve.
Mabbett, Ian, (1998, “The problem of the historical Nagarjuna revisited”, Journal of the American Oriental Society, 118(3): 332–346.
Murti, T. R. V. (1955), The Central Philosophy of Buddhism. George Allen and Unwin, London. 2nd edition: 1960.
Murty, K. Satchidananda (1971), Nagarjuna. National Book Trust, New Delhi. 2nd edition: 1978.
Ramanan, K. Venkata (1966), Nāgārjuna's Philosophy. Charles E. Tuttle, Vermont and Tokyo. Reprint: Motilal Banarsidass, Delhi. 1978. (This book gives an excellent and detailed examination of the range and subtleties of Nagarjuna's philosophy.)
Ruegg, D. Seyfort (1981), The literature of the Madhyamaka school of philosophy in India (A History of Indian literature), Harrassowitz, ISBN 978-3-447-02204-0.
Sastri, H. Chatterjee, ed. (1977), The Philosophy of Nāgārjuna as contained in the Ratnāvalī. Part I [ Containing the text and introduction only ]. Saraswat Library, Calcutta.
Streng, Frederick J. (1967), Emptiness: A Study in Religious Meaning. Nashville: Abingdon Press.
Tuck, Andrew P. (1990), Comparative Philosophy and the Philosophy of Scholarship: on the Western Interpretation of Nāgārjuna, Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Walser, Joseph (2002), Nagarjuna And The Ratnavali: New Ways To Date An Old Philosopher, Journal of the International Association of Buddhist Studies 25 (1-2), 209-262
Walser, Joseph (2005),Nāgārjuna in Context: Mahāyāna Buddhism and Early Indian Culture. New York: Columbia University Press.
Westerhoff, Jan (2010), The Dispeller of Disputes: Nāgārjuna's Vigrahavyāvartanī. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Westerhoff, Jan (2009), Nāgārjuna's Madhyamaka. A Philosophical Introduction. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Wedemeyer, Christian K. (2007), Āryadeva's Lamp that Integrates the Practices: The Gradual Path of Vajrayāna Buddhism according to the Esoteric Community Noble Tradition. New York: AIBS/Columbia University Press.

External links[edit]



Wikimedia Commons has media related to Nagarjuna.





Wikiquote has quotations related to: Nagarjuna





Wikisource has original text related to this article:
Saṃyukta Āgama 301: Kātyāyana Gotra Sūtra






Wikiversity has learning resources about Buddha oracle#4 Small Steps (Nagarjuna)



Westerhoff, Jan Christoph. "Nāgārjuna". In Zalta, Edward N. Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. 
 Rhys Davids, T. W. (1911). "Nāgārjuna". In Chisholm, Hugh. Encyclopædia Britannica. 19 (11th ed.). Cambridge University Press. p. 151. 
"Nagarjuna". Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. 
Nagarjuna: a bibliography
Overview of traditional biographical accounts
Online version of the Ratnāvalī (Precious Garland) in English Translated by Prof. Vidyakaraprabha and Bel-dzek
Online version of the Suhṛllekha (Letter to a Friend) in English Translated by Alexander Berzin
Works by or about Nagarjuna at Internet Archive
Works by Nagarjuna at LibriVox (public domain audiobooks) 
Nārāgjuna vis-à-vis the Āgama-s and Nikāya-s Byoma Kusuma Nepalese Dharmasangha
ZenEssays: Nagarjuna and the Madhyamika
Mula madhyamaka karika online Tibetan and English version translated by Stephen Batchelor







v
t
e


Indian philosophy



Topics



Atheism
Atomism
Idealism
Logic
Monotheism
Vedic philosophy





Āstika



Hindu: Samkhya
Nyaya
Vaisheshika
Yoga
Mīmāṃsā
Vedanta

Acintya bheda abheda
Advaita
Bhedabheda
Dvaita
Dvaitadvaita
Shuddhadvaita
Vishishtadvaita


Shaiva

Pratyabhijña
Pashupata Shaivism
Shaiva Siddhanta







Nāstika



Ājīvika
Ajñana
Cārvāka
Jain

Anekantavada
Syādvāda


Buddhist philosophy and Early Buddhist schools

Śūnyatā
Madhyamaka
Yogacara
Sautrāntika
Svatantrika







Texts



Abhinavabharati
Arthashastra
Bhagavad Gita
Bhagavata Purana
Brahma Sutra
Buddhist texts
Dharmashastra
Hindu texts
Jain Agamas
Kamasutra
Mimamsa Sutras

All 108 texts
Principal


Nyāya Sūtras
Nyayakusumanjali
Panchadasi
Samkhyapravachana Sutra
Shiva Sutras
Tarka-Sangraha
Tattvacintāmaṇi
Upanishads

Minor


Vaiśeṣika Sūtra
Vedangas
Vedas
Yoga Sutras of Patanjali
Yoga Vasistha
More...





Philosophers



Avatsara
Uddalaka Aruni
Yajnavalkya
Gargi Vachaknavi
Patanjali
Kanada
Kapila
Brihadratha Ikshvaku
Jaimini
Vyasa
Chanakya
Akshapada Gotama
Nagarjuna
Padmasambhava
Vasubandhu
Gaudapada
Adi Shankara
Swami Vivekananda
Dayananda Saraswati
Ramanuja
Vedanta Desika
Raikva
Sadananda
Sakayanya
Satyakama Jabala
Madhvacharya
Vidyaranya
More...





Concepts



Abhava
Abhasavada
Abheda
Adarsana
Adrishta
Advaita
Aham
Aishvarya
Akrodha
Aksara
Anatta
Ananta
Anavastha
Anupalabdhi
Apauruṣheyā
Artha
Asiddhatva
Asatkalpa
Ātman
Avyakta
Brahman
Brahmi sthiti
Bhuman
Bhumika
Chaitanya
Chidabhasa
Cittabhumi
Dāna
Devatas
Dharma
Dhi
Dravya
Dhrti
Ekagrata
Guṇa
Hitā
Idam
Ikshana
Ishvaratva
Jivatva
Kama
Karma
Kasaya
Kshetrajna
Lakshana
Mithyatva
Mokṣa
Nididhyasana
Nirvāṇa
Niyama
Padārtha
Paramatman
Paramananda
Parameshashakti
Parinama-vada
Pradhana
Prajna
Prakṛti
Pratibimbavada
Pratītyasamutpāda
Puruṣa
Rājamaṇḍala
Ṛta
Sakshi
Samadhi
Saṃsāra
Sankalpa
Satya
Satkaryavada
Shabda Brahman
Sphoṭa
Sthiti
Śūnyatā
Sutram
Svātantrya
Iccha-mrityu
Syādvāda
Taijasa
Tajjalan
Tanmatra
Tyāga
Uparati
Upekkhā
Utsaha
Vivartavada
Viraj
Yamas
Yoga
More...












v
t
e


Bodhisattvas



General list



Avalokitesvara (Guanyin)
Manjushri
Samantabhadra
Kshitigarbha
Maitreya
Mahasthamaprapta
Ākāśagarbha





Chinese



Skanda
Sangharama (Guan Yu)





Vajrayana



Padmasambhava
Mandarava
Tara
Vajrapani
Vajrasattva
Sitatapatra
Cundi





Other



B. R. Ambedkar
Bhaishajyaraja
Candraprabha
Nagarjuna
Niō
Shantideva
Supratisthitacaritra
Supushpachandra
Suryaprabha
Vasudhara
Visistacaritra
Visuddhacaritra












v
t
e


Buddhism topics






Glossary
Index
Outline





Foundations



Three Jewels

Buddha
Dharma
Sangha


Four Noble Truths
Noble Eightfold Path
Nirvana
Middle Way





The Buddha



Tathāgata
Birthday
Four sights
Physical characteristics
Footprint
Relics
Iconography in Laos and Thailand
Films
Miracles
Family

Suddhodāna (father)
Māyā (mother)
Mahapajapati Gotamī (aunt, adoptive mother)
Yasodhara (wife)
Rāhula (son)
Ānanda (cousin)
Devadatta (cousin)


Places where the Buddha stayed
Buddha in world religions





Key concepts



Avidyā (Ignorance)
Bardo
Bodhicitta
Bodhisattva
Buddha-nature
Dhamma theory
Dharma
Enlightenment
Five hindrances
Indriya
Karma
Kleshas
Mind Stream
Parinirvana
Pratītyasamutpāda
Rebirth
Saṃsāra
Saṅkhāra
Skandha
Śūnyatā
Taṇhā (Craving)
Tathātā
Ten Fetters
Three marks of existence

Impermanence
Dukkha
Anatta


Two truths doctrine





Cosmology



Ten spiritual realms
Six realms

Heaven
Human realm
Asura realm
Hungry Ghost realm
Animal realm
Hell


Three planes of existence





Practices



Bhavana
Bodhipakkhiyādhammā
Brahmavihara

Mettā
Karuṇā
Mudita
Upekkha


Dāna
Devotion
Dhyāna
Faith
Five Strengths
Iddhipada
Meditation

Mantras
Kammaṭṭhāna
Recollection
Smarana
Anapanasati
Samatha
Vipassanā (Vipassana movement)
Shikantaza
Zazen
Kōan
Mandala
Tonglen
Tantra
Tertön
Terma


Merit
Mindfulness

Satipatthana


Nekkhamma
Pāramitā
Paritta
Puja

Offerings
Prostration
Chanting


Refuge
Satya

Sacca


Seven Factors of Enlightenment

Sati
Dhamma vicaya
Pīti
Passaddhi


Śīla

Five Precepts
Bodhisattva vow
Prātimokṣa


Threefold Training

Śīla
Samadhi
Prajñā


Vīrya

Four Right Exertions







Nirvana



Bodhi
Bodhisattva
Buddhahood
Pratyekabuddha
Four stages of enlightenment

Sotāpanna
Sakadagami
Anāgāmi
Arhat







Monasticism



Bhikkhu
Bhikkhuni
Śrāmaṇera
Śrāmaṇerī
Anagarika
Ajahn
Sayadaw
Zen master
Rōshi
Lama
Rinpoche
Geshe
Tulku
Householder
Upāsaka and Upāsikā
Śrāvaka

The ten principal disciples


Shaolin Monastery





Major figures



Gautama Buddha
Kaundinya
Assaji
Sāriputta
Mahamoggallāna
Mulian
Ānanda
Mahākassapa
Anuruddha
Mahākaccana
Nanda
Subhuti
Punna
Upali
Mahapajapati Gotamī
Khema
Uppalavanna
Asita
Channa
Yasa
Buddhaghoṣa
Nagasena
Angulimala
Bodhidharma
Nagarjuna
Asanga
Vasubandhu
Atiśa
Padmasambhava
Nichiren
Songtsen Gampo
Emperor Wen of Sui
Dalai Lama
Panchen Lama
Karmapa
Shamarpa
Naropa
Xuanzang
Zhiyi





Texts



Tripiṭaka
Madhyamakālaṃkāra
Mahayana sutras
Pāli Canon
Chinese Buddhist canon
Tibetan Buddhist canon





Branches



Theravada
Mahayana

Chan Buddhism

Zen
Seon
Thiền


Pure Land
Tiantai
Nichiren
Madhyamaka
Yogachara


Navayana
Vajrayana

Tibetan
Shingon
Dzogchen


Early Buddhist schools
Pre-sectarian Buddhism
Basic points unifying Theravāda and Mahāyāna





Countries



Afghanistan
Bangladesh
Bhutan
Cambodia
China
India
Indonesia
Japan
Korea
Laos
Malaysia
Maldives
Mongolia
Myanmar
Nepal
Pakistan
Philippines
Russia

Kalmykia
Buryatia


Singapore
Sri Lanka
Taiwan
Thailand
Tibet
Vietnam
Middle East

Iran


Western countries

Argentina
Australia
Brazil
France
United Kingdom
United States
Venezuela







History



Timeline
Ashoka
Buddhist councils
History of Buddhism in India

Decline of Buddhism in India


Great Anti-Buddhist Persecution
Greco-Buddhism
Buddhism and the Roman world
Buddhism in the West
Silk Road transmission of Buddhism
Persecution of Buddhists
Banishment of Buddhist monks from Nepal
Buddhist crisis
Sinhalese Buddhist nationalism
Buddhist modernism
Vipassana movement
969 Movement
Women in Buddhism





Philosophy



Abhidharma
Atomism
Buddhology
Creator
Economics
Eight Consciousnesses
Engaged Buddhism
Eschatology
Ethics
Evolution
Humanism
Logic
Reality
Secular Buddhism
Socialism
The unanswered questions





Culture



Architecture

Temple
Vihara
Wat
Stupa
Pagoda
Candi
Dzong architecture
Japanese Buddhist architecture
Korean Buddhist temples
Thai temple art and architecture
Tibetan Buddhist architecture


Art

Greco-Buddhist


Bodhi Tree
Budai
Buddharupa
Calendar
Cuisine
Funeral
Holidays

Vesak
Uposatha
Magha Puja
Asalha Puja
Vassa


Jaya Sri Maha Bodhi
Kasaya
Mahabodhi Temple
Mantra

Om mani padme hum


Mudra
Music
Pilgrimage

Lumbini
Maya Devi Temple
Bodh Gaya
Sarnath
Kushinagar


Poetry
Prayer beads
Prayer wheel
Symbolism

Dharmachakra
Flag
Bhavacakra
Swastika
Thangka


Temple of the Tooth
Vegetarianism





Miscellaneous



Abhijñā
Amitābha
Avalokiteśvara

Guanyin


Brahmā
Dhammapada
Dharma talk
Hinayana
Kalpa
Koliya
Lineage
Maitreya
Māra
Ṛddhi
Sacred languages

Pali
Sanskrit


Siddhi
Sutra
Vinaya





Comparison



Bahá'í Faith
Christianity

Influences
Comparison


East Asian religions
Gnosticism
Hinduism
Jainism
Judaism
Psychology
Science
Theosophy
Violence
Western philosophy





Lists



Bodhisattvas
Books
Buddhas

named


Buddhists
Suttas
Temples








Category
Portal









Authority control



WorldCat Identities
VIAF: 8711937
LCCN: n81097126
ISNI: 0000 0000 8088 0781
GND: 118641263
SUDOC: 027043983
BNF: cb11917351g (data)










 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Nagarjuna&oldid=812409484"					
Categories: Bodhisattvas150 births250 deaths3rd-century Indian philosophersAyurvedacharyasBuddhist philosophersPeople from Guntur districtIndian BuddhistsMahayana Buddhists3rd-century Indian writersMadhyamakaMahasiddhasOntologistsTelugu peopleZen PatriarchsTibetan Buddhist teachersBuddhist yogisMahayanaAncient Indian physiciansAncient Indian medicineConverts to Buddhism from HinduismRangtongWriters from Andhra Pradesh2nd-century Indian philosophersScholars from Andhra Pradesh2nd-century Indian writersIndian male writersIndian male philosophersAncient Indian scientistsIndian Buddhist monksHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback linksEngvarB from September 2014Use dmy dates from September 2014Pages using infobox person with unknown parametersInfobox person using religionArticles with hCardsWikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the 1911 Encyclopaedia Britannica with Wikisource referenceArticles with Internet Archive linksArticles with LibriVox linksWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiers 
