Freaknik: The Musical - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Freaknik: The Musical



Promotional poster



Genre
Musical show
Comedy


Created by
Carl Jones
Nick Weidenfeld


Written by
Carl Jones
Nick Weidenfeld


Directed by
Chris Prynoski


Creative director(s)
Jacob Escobedo


Voices of
(See Voice cast)


Theme music composer
Tha Bizness


Opening theme
"Freaknik Is Back", performed by T-Pain


Ending theme
"Ghetto Commandments", performed by T-Pain, Snoop Dogg and Mack Maine


Composer(s)



T-Pain
Tha Bizness
Young Fyre and Bishop Jones (additional music)





Country of origin
United States


Original language(s)
English


Production


Executive producer(s)



T-Pain
Carl Jones
Nick Weidenfeld
Ollie Green (co-executive producer)





Producer(s)



Georgette Perna
Monica Jones and Dave Newberg (associate producers)





Editor(s)
Dave Hughes
Nicholas Veith


Running time



44 minutes
49 minutes (uncut version)





Production company(s)



Titmouse, Inc.
Nappy Boy Entertainment
Williams Street
Warner Bros. Television Distribution





Release


Original network
Adult Swim


Picture format
16:9 HDTV


Original release
March 7, 2010 (2010-03-07)


External links


Website
video.adultswim.com/freaknik/


Freaknik: The Musical is a musical television special produced by T-Pain. It features the voice of T-Pain as the Ghost of Freaknik, as well as the voices of entertainers such as Lil Wayne, Young Cash, Snoop Dogg, Sophia Fresh, and Rick Ross, and comedians such as Andy Samberg and Charlie Murphy who provide additional voices. It was scheduled to air on Cartoon Network's late night programming block Adult Swim sometime in 2009, but after several push-backs, it premiered on March 7, 2010. The musical is based on the actual music festival of the same name that used to take place in Atlanta, Georgia.
A soundtrack was released by Jive Records and Nappy Boy records on April 20, 2010. The 49-minute uncut version of Freaknik: The Musical has been released on DVD and other forms of home media.



Contents


1 Plot
2 Voice cast
3 Production
4 Reception
5 Home release

5.1 Soundtrack


6 References
7 External links



Plot[edit]
The movie starts at a party that a group of teenagers (Christopher "Kid" Reid and Affion Crockett) claims is the best party they have ever attended. An elderly man (Lil Jon) joins the party and explains the history of Freaknik. He tells them that Freaknik threw the biggest party of all time, until it was broken up by the police in 1998; he claims the police "killed" Freaknik. Kid n' Play tried to convince that Freaknik is an urban legend like Candyman, but as Play looks in the mirror, they were eaten by a swarm of wasps. The group is then led by the old man in summoning Freaknik, who appears as the Ghost of Freaknik Past (T-Pain).
The scene changes to a radio announcer named Mr. Thanksgiving (DJ Drama), who is interviewing Freaknik. Mr. Thanksgiving and Freaknik explain that a rapping contest will be held, the victor of which will get "a lifetime supply of money, clothes, and hoes". The scene changes once more to the bedroom of Virgil (Young Cash), Big Uzi (Rick Ross), and Light Skin (CeeLo Green), collectively known as the Sweet Tea Mobsters, a group of teenage rappers from Sweet Tea, Florida, who hope to achieve fame. The group decides to drive to Atlanta to participate in the aforementioned contest, along with their weed-smoking (and supplying) friend Doela Man (DJ Pooh).
During their journey, Light Skin tells of a secret society of African Americans called the Boule, fraternity parlance for "a council of noblemen", that seeks to guide the course of black culture. The members of this organization are parodies of Oprah Winfrey, Al Sharpton (Charlie Murphy), Bill Cosby (Kel Mitchell), Russell Simmons (Affion Crockett), O. J. Simpson, and Jesse Jackson. They wear medallions inscribed "10%", an allusion to the W. E. B. Du Bois essay The Talented Tenth, which says that a class of exceptional members of the black race will rise to lead it.
The Sweet Tea Mobsters make a number of pit stops, including a detour at a college fraternity party where they meet two alcoholic fraternity members (Bill Hader and Andy Samberg). While Virgil is fueling the gas tank, A car, inhabited by four sexy-looking women (Sophia Fresh) named Leacosia (Crystal), Toprameneesha (Skye), Obamaniqua (Cole Rose), and Suzie (Crystal), arrives. He tried to refuse, but the girls beg in song, besides Leacosia giving Virgil a kiss in the form of a gun. He accepts.
Meanwhile, Freaknik meets Rev. Sharpton, who tried to force him to work for the Boule. The plan fails as Freaknik says that he will "never, ever turn his back on his own people", so he escorts Sharpton out via trapdoor.
At the party, the group meets the Fruit Bowl Boys (Kel Mitchell, Affion Crockett, and Denzel Whitaker), who later become the group’s biggest competition and are from the mostly white suburbs of Sweet Tea, Florida (although they resemble the Sweet Tea Mobsters). On their long, winding road trip, the Sweet Tea Mob gets lost in New Orleans and are confronted by a gangster (Snoop Dogg) who makes them visit his boss, Trap Jesus (Lil Wayne). Upon meeting Trap Jesus, the group loses hope, thinking it is the end, but instead he inspires them to compete and gives them one of his many Lamborghinis to use to get to Atlanta. However, they crash the Lamborghini when Big Uzi becomes enraged after hearing the Fruit Bowl Boys talking about his jail experience. The group gives up except Virgil, who believes that winning the contest is their destiny. The rest of the group still doesn't believe him until they are given a ride in an airplane by the "Flying Malcolms."
Meanwhile, the Freaknik character is elected the "ghost mayor of Atlanta" and dubs the city "Freaknation." Soon after, President Barack Obama hands the presidency over to the ghost of Freaknik, a move that greatly angers Oprah, which wants to see Freaknik destroyed. She devises a plan to send a giant robotic monster called the "Perminator" (a robotic version of Al Sharpton, rebuilt from Sharpton's corpse after he got hit by lightning while blowing out his hair) to Atlanta to destroy Freaknik. Meanwhile, at the party, the Fruit Bowl Boys begin singing "Shank Ya in the Shower." The Sweet Tea Mobsters arrive at Atlanta at the same time as the Perminator begins its attack; it kills the Fruit Bowl Boys almost immediately. He seems to have Freaknik down for the count, but mass love from the crowd empowers Freaknik as the Mob performs, giving him the ability to grow to a monstrous size. Using the love of his fans, Freaknik is able to destroy the Perminator.
After the fight, Freaknik declares the Sweet Tea Mobsters the winners of the contest, but Virgil refuses the prize and tears the check in half. He tells Freaknik that he doesn't need it as long as Freaknik comes back every year, but before he can finish speaking, a golden lion statue-shaped ship comes right in, inhabited by the members of the Boule. But as Freaknik is about to disqualify them, a dog-shaped spacecraft called the "Mothership Connection" arrives, killing the Boule and their ship (Note: This scene can only be seen on the uncut version of the special). It is inhabited by three brightly colored aliens who are actually George Clinton, Bootsy Collins, and Gene "King Poo Poo Man" Anderson. They say they have come to take Freaknik because "there are other galaxies that need his powers of positivity", saying that maybe someday he will return and they can "funk it up" once again. Freaknik gives Virgil his gold chain and says that Atlanta will always be his home. Suzie approaches Freaknik, telling him her baby (which looks like Freaknik) needs a father. Freaknik then rushes on board the ship with Clinton, Collins, and Anderson. Mr. Thanksgiving, the radio DJ from the beginning of the show, then speaks, saying how crazy that was and they'll see us next time; Freaknik is seen dancing on the Mothership as it leaves Earth. And after the end credits, we see Sweet Tea taping the check back together.
Voice cast[edit]

T-Pain as The Ghost of Freaknik Past
Rick Ross as Big Uzi Theodore
CeeLo Green as Light Skin Juliens
DJ Pooh as Doela Man
Young Cash as Virgil Gibson
Lil Jon as the foreboding old dude
DJ Drama as Mr. Thanksgiving
Kelis as Tyra Banks
Charlie Murphy as Al Sharpton
Andy Samberg as Chad
Bill Hader as Tad
Affion Crockett as Russell Simmons, Fruit Bowl Boys member, Christopher "Play" Martin, Riff, Flying Malcolm #1, various
Kel Mitchell as Fruit Bowl Boys frontman, Bill Cosby, various
Big Boi as The Preacher
Snoop Dogg as gang member #1
Mack Maine as gang member #2
Lil Wayne as Trap Jesus
Sophia Fresh as Leacosia, Toprameneesha, Obamaniqua, Suzie
George Clinton as an alien version of himself
Bootsy Collins as an alien version of himself
Young Cash as Virgil Gibson
Gene "King Poo Poo Man" Anderson as an alien version of himself
Corey Burton as The Balladeer, newscaster
Christopher "Kid" Reid as himself
Maronzio Vance as Jesse Jackson
Marlin Hill as Barack Obama
Carl Jones as a landlord and a partygoer
Liz Benoit as Oprah Winfrey
Denzel Whitaker as a member of the Fruit Bowl Boys
Georgette Perna as secretary, girl
Reggie Boyland as a partygoer

Additional voices are provided by: Gerald "Slink" Johnson, Heather Lawless, Jason Van Veen, and Jason Walden.
Production[edit]
Freaknik: The Musical originally evolved from a failed pilot entitled That Crook'd 'Sipp which was created by Jacob Escobedo, Nick Weidenfeld, Levell "David Banner" Crump and Mike Weiss. The pilot premiered on television on May 13, 2007.[1][2] Originally, the pilot was to receive 6 additional episodes scheduled to air sometime after 2007, but the episodes never surfaced and the show's status remained up in the air until mid-2009 when the series was scrapped for good in order to create Freaknik: The Musical.[3][4] Characters including Big Uzi, Suzy, & Virgil all appeared in That Crook'd Sipp
Reception[edit]
In its original American broadcast on March 7, 2010, Freaknik: The Musical was watched by 797,000 viewers 18-34, making it the second most watched Adult Swim program of that night, behind a rerun of Family Guy.[5]
IGN gave this episode a 6.1 out of 10, which is considered "Passable", and received comments both positive and negative.[6]
Home release[edit]
On March 8, 2010, the animated special was released for purchase on the iTunes Store.[7] The uncut 49-minute-long version of Freaknik: The Musical was released on one-disc DVD set in the United States on October 26, 2010,[8][9] from Warner Home Video and included the soundtrack.
Soundtrack[edit]
It was announced by T-Pain that a soundtrack would be released through Jive Records, Konvict Muzik and Nappy Boy Entertainment on April 20, 2010. The track "Ghetto Commandments", the song playing in the credits, was released on iTunes as a single on March 23 and it features rappers Snoop Dogg & Mack Maine who also play in the movie; it was released the same day as the release of T-Pain's promo single for his album "rEVOLVEr" "Reverse Cowgirl". The Rick Ross song "Grab Yo Beltloop" didn't make the final cut for the album.


No.
Title
Producer(s)
Length


1.
"Freaknik Is Back" (T-Pain a.k.a. Ghost of Freaknik)
Tha Bizness
2:26


2.
"Save You" (T-Pain a.k.a. Ghost of Freaknik featuring One Chance's Jon A. Gordon (The Gordon Brothers), Michael A. Gordon (The Gordon Brothers))
Tha Bizness
3:42


3.
"Ghetto Commandments" (T-Pain a.k.a. Ghost of Freaknik featuring Snoop Dogg & Mack Maine)
Tha Bizness
4:47


4.
"We The Mob" (T-Pain a.k.a. Ghost of Freaknik featuring Young Cash a.k.a. Virgil)
Ky Miller
3:02


5.
"Beat Build" (T-Pain a.k.a. Ghost of Freaknik featuring Young Cash a.k.a. Virgil & Rick Ross a.k.a. Big Uzi)
Tha Bizness
3:31


References[edit]


^ "David Banner Debuts New Cartoon". XXL. May 14, 2007. Retrieved 28 April 2012. 
^ Mariel Concepcion (May 11, 2007). "David Banner Premieres 'Crook'd' Cartoon". Billboard. Retrieved 28 April 2012. 
^ Chris J. Genius (August 21, 2010). "T.I. To Release Cartoon Series". DrJaysLive. Retrieved 28 April 2012. 
^ "Cartoon Creator Carl Jones On "Freaknik: The Musical" and Season 3 of "The Boondocks"". Complex. May 3, 2010. Retrieved 28 April 2012. 
^ Ratings Notes for TNT, TBS, Adult Swim, truTV and Cartoon Network
^ "Freaknik: The Musical" Review - TV Review at IGN
^ Freaknik: The Musical at iTunes.
^ "Freaknik: The Musical". Amazon.com. Retrieved 22 May 2011. 
^ "DVD: Freaknik: The Musical". Adult Swim. Retrieved 22 May 2011. 


External links[edit]

Official website
Freaknik: The Musical on IMDb







v
t
e


Adult Swim pilots and specials



Pilots



Welcome to Eltingville (2002)
Saddle Rash (2002)
The Groovenians (2002)
Korgoth of Barbaria (2006)
Snake 'n' Bacon (2009)
Cheyenne Cinnamon and the Fantabulous Unicorn of Sugar Town Candy Fudge (2010)
Totally for Teens (2011)
Filthy Sexy Teen$ (2013)





Specials



Anime Talk Show (2004)
Young Person's Guide to History (2008)
Infomercials (since 2009)
Freaknik: The Musical (2010)
Metalocalypse: The Doomstar Requiem (2013)
Dan Deacon: U.S.A. (2013)
Dinner with Friends with Brett Gelman and Friends (2014)
Dinner with Family with Brett Gelman and Brett Gelman's Family (2015)
Bagboy (2015)
Dinner in America with Brett Gelman (2016)
Mr. Neighbor's House (2016)






Regular Adult Swim programming










v
t
e


Williams Street






Mike Lazzo
Keith Crofford





Channels



Adult Swim

programming


Toonami

programming
Jetstream







Films



Aqua Teen Hunger Force Colon Movie Film for Theaters (2007)





Record label




Albums



Cerebral Ballzy (Cerebral Ballzy)
The Dethalbum, Dethalbum II, Dethalbum III (Dethklok)
Have Yourself a Meaty Little Christmas
R.A.P. Music (Killer Mike)
The Music of J. G. Thirlwell (JG Thirlwell)





Compilations



Adult Swim Singles Program

2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016


African Swim
ATL RMX
Chocolate Swim
Definitive Swim
Garage Swim
Ghostly Swim
Ghostly Swim 2
Metal Swim
Unclassified
Warm & Scratchy
World Wide Renewal Program








See also



Adult Swim in a Box
Cartoon Network
Games
Super Deluxe
Turner Broadcasting System








 Book
 Category












v
t
e


T-Pain






Discography





Studio albums



Rappa Ternt Sanga
Epiphany
Three Ringz
Revolver
Oblivion





Instrumental albums



The Instrumentals





Mixtapes



prEVOLVEr
Stoic
T-Wayne





Related articles



Nappy Boy Entertainment
Freaknik: The Musical










 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Freaknik:_The_Musical&oldid=809106014"					
Categories: Adult Swim pilots and specials2010 television specialsAnimated television specialsAtlanta in fictionMusical television specialsGhosts in televisionAfrican-American televisionHip hop television2010s American television specialsHip hop filmsHood filmsHidden categories: Pages using infobox television with editor parameterOfficial website different in Wikidata and Wikipedia 
