The Jacksons: An American Dream - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



The Jacksons: An American Dream



The DVD cover for the miniseries.



Written by
Joyce Eliason


Directed by
Karen Arthur


Starring
Lawrence Hilton-Jacobs
Angela Bassett
Holly Robinson Peete
Margaret Avery
Alex Burrall
Jermaine Jackson, Jr.
Bumper Robinson
Floyd Meyers Jr.
Monica Calhoun
Jason Weaver
Angel Vargas
Terrence Howard
Vanessa L. Williams
Billy Dee Williams
Wylie Draper
Colin Steele


Theme music composer
Harold Wheeler


Original language(s)
English


No. of episodes
2


Production


Producer(s)
Suzanne de Passe
Joyce Eliason
Jermaine Jackson
Margaret Maldonado
Stan Marguiles


Running time
240 min.


Distributor
The Stan Marguiles Company
KJ Films
de Passe Entertainment
Motown Productions
PolyGram Filmed Entertainment


Release


Original network
ABC


Original release
November 15 – November 18, 1992


The Jacksons: An American Dream is a four-hour American miniseries broadcast in two halves on ABC and originally broadcast on November 15 through November 18, 1992.[1] It is based upon the history of the Jackson family, one of the most successful musical families in show business, and the early and successful years of the popular Motown group The Jackson 5.
The miniseries was executive produced by Suzanne de Passe and Stan Marguiles, produced by Joyce Eliason, Jermaine Jackson and Margaret Maldonado and directed by Karen Arthur. The movie was filmed in Los Angeles and Pittsburgh, where director Arthur had previously filmed her feature film Lady Beware.
The Jacksons: An American Dream is based on Katherine Jackson's My Family autobiography. A critical and commercial success, the program won an Emmy Award for Outstanding Individual Achievement in Choreography. The title alludes to the iconic concept of the 'American Dream'.



Contents


1 Plot
2 Cast
3 Historical inaccuracies
4 Reception
5 Soundtrack

5.1 Track listing


6 See also
7 References
8 External links



Plot[edit]
The miniseries stars Lawrence Hilton-Jacobs as the Jacksons' patriarch Joseph Jackson, Angela Bassett as the family matriarch Katherine Jackson, Alex Burrall, Jason Weaver and Wylie Draper played Michael Jackson in different eras, while Bumper Robinson and Terrence Howard played Jackie Jackson in different eras, Shakiem Jamar Evans and Angel Vargas played Tito Jackson, Margaret Avery as Katherine's mother Martha Scruse, Holly Robinson Peete as Diana Ross, Billy Dee Williams as Berry Gordy and Vanessa L. Williams as Suzanne de Passe. The opening titles of the film shows footage of the real Jacksons rehearsing, performing on stage, a few clips from the "Can You Feel It" music video, album covers, magazine covers and pictures of the family. The film is mostly based on the autobiography written by Katherine Jackson, who issued the 1990 autobiography, My Family. Part one of the film was based on how Joseph and Katherine managed to raise their children, first in Gary, Indiana, then later dealing with The Jackson 5's early fame and its consequences. Part two of the film is based on the struggles of young Michael Jackson as he deals with his brothers marrying early into The Jackson 5 success, his problems with acne as a teenager, his eventual solo superstardom based on the success of his albums Off the Wall and Thriller and his legendary Motown 25 performance of "Billie Jean" as well as his difficult relationship with his father.
Michael Jackson’s voice is heard on: "Beat It," "Human Nature," "Billie Jean," "I Want You Back," "I Wanna Be Where You Are," "I'll Be There," "Rockin' Robin," "ABC," and "Dancing Machine." On all other songs, the Michael Jackson vocal part is performed by Anthony Harrell, Jason Weaver or Kipp Lennon.
Cast[edit]

Lawrence Hilton-Jacobs - Joseph Jackson
Angela Bassett - Katherine Jackson
Holly Robinson Peete - Diana Ross
Margaret Avery - Martha Scruse
Billy Dee Williams - Berry Gordy
Vanessa Williams - Suzanne de Passe
Wylie Draper - Michael Jackson

Abolade David Olatunde - Michael Jackson (baby)
Alex Burrall - Michael Jackson (ages 6–8)
Jason Weaver - Michael Jackson (ages 9–14)


Colin Steele - Jermaine Jackson

Jermaine Jackson II - Jermaine Jackson (ages 10–17)


Terrence Howard - Jackie Jackson

Bumper Robinson - Jackie Jackson (ages 12–16)


Monica Calhoun - Rebbie Jackson
Ebonie Smith - La Toya Jackson

Kelli Martin - La Toya Jackson (ages 8–10)


Angel Vargas - Tito Jackson

Shakiem Jamar Evans - Tito Jackson (ages 11–15)


Maya Nicole Johnson - Janet Jackson
Monica Allison - Hazel Gordy
Robert Redcross - Randy Jackson

Nicolas Phillips - Randy Jackson (age 7-9)


Marcus Maurice - Marlon Jackson

Floyd Myers, Jr. - Marlon Jackson (age 7-9)
Jacen Wilkerson - Marlon Jackson (ages 10–15)



Historical inaccuracies[edit]




This section needs expansion. You can help by adding to it. (December 2015)




The group is shown making a record of Wilbert Harrison's "Kansas City". "Kansas City" was never covered by the Jackson 5, although the band did multiple covers of early hits.
In the Motown audition scene, Berry Gordy was not actually in attendance. Instead, the audition was videotaped and shown to Gordy at a later time.[2]
The Jacksons are shown getting an audition for Motown due to winning a talent show at the Apollo Theatre, and Joseph is touting it as their first signing. In actuality, the group's first recording contract was offered by Steeltown Records, a smaller agency based in their native Gary, Indiana, in 1967. The group had done one audition for Motown and was rejected. Following their moderate success with a couple of single tracks in Steeltown, the Jackson 5 felt confident enough to audition a second time for Motown, after which they were signed. In the film, prior to the Motown debut, Michael is seen in a recording studio, which may have been reference to their early career with Steeltown Records.
In the scene where Michael is seen shooting for the Pepsi commercial which caused his scalp to catch fire, it shows his body rolling down the stairs. In fact he actually walked down the stairs with his hair on fire and later realized and did a one rotation spin (not the usual spin move he did) and shaking his head wildly from the pain.
The film's depiction of Michael performing "Billie Jean" at the Motown 25 television special, has Jackson wearing his trademark white glove on his right hand. In reality, Michael wore it on his left hand that night. The style of the film's glove is also notably different, compared to the factual one.
When Michael was born it says he was born in 1959 and in real life was born in 1958.

Reception[edit]
The Jacksons: An American Dream became one of the most popular and successful music-biography miniseries of the 1990s. Part 1 of the miniseries was the third highest-rated program broadcast during the week of November 9–15 with a 21.1 rating.[3] Part 2 of the miniseries was watched by 38.4 million viewers[4] in 22.3 million households[5] becoming the highest-rated program broadcast during the week of November 16–22[5] posting a 23.9 rating, and 36 share.[4] Overall, the miniseries was watched in 38.3 million households and posted a 22.3 rating and 33 share.[6]
The series won an Emmy Award for Outstanding Individual Achievement in Choreography, and was also nominated for Outstanding Individual Achievement in Hairstyling for a Miniseries or a Special, Outstanding Miniseries, and Outstanding Sound Mixing for a Drama Miniseries or a Special.
Bumper Robinson won a Young Artist Award for Best Young Actor in a Television Movie, and Alex Burrall and Jason Weaver both won a special award for Outstanding Young Performers Starring in a Mini-Series. The miniseries was later rebroadcast on VH1 and released to VHS and DVD. The DVD version of the miniseries was released as a two-disc set. The first disc was named "The Early Years" and the second disc was named "The Success Years". In 2004, VH1 would produce Man in the Mirror: The Michael Jackson Story, which picked up Michael's life from the end of The Jacksons to the present, which at the time included him standing trial on charges of child molestation.
The miniseries aired frequently after the death of Michael Jackson. It has been shown on TV One, BET, Centric and VH1. It is followed by Man in the Mirror: The Michael Jackson Story.
Soundtrack[edit]


The Jacksons: An American Dream


Soundtrack album by The Jackson 5


Released
September 29, 1992


Recorded
1992


Genre
Soul, Funk


Length
37:51


Label
Motown


The Jackson 5 chronology





2300 Jackson Street
(1989)2300 Jackson Street1989
"The Jacksons: An American Dream"
(1992)
Soulsation!
(1995)Soulsation!1995








Singles from The Jacksons: An American Dream





Track listing[edit]
All songs performed by the Jackson 5 except where noted

"Who's Lovin' You" [Live] - 5:39

Recorded live in Gary, Indiana, May 29, 1971


"Kansas City" (Jason Weaver) - 2:19
"I'll Be There" (Originally on Third Album)- 3:56
"In the Still of the Night" (Boyz II Men) - 2:51
"Walk on/The Love You Save" [Live] - 6:05

Recorded live in Gary, Indiana, May 29, 1971


"I Wanna Be Where You Are" (Jason Weaver) - 4:21
"Dancing Machine" (Originally on G.I.T.: Get It Together) - 3:17
"The Dream Goes On" (Jermaine Jackson) - 3:50
"I Want You Back/ABC" [Live] - 3:23

Recorded live at the Forum, Los Angeles. August 26, 1972 (Later issued in its entirety on Live at the Forum in 2010)


"Stay With Love" (Jermaine Jackson and Syreeta) - 4:19
"Never Can Say Goodbye" (Originally on Maybe Tomorrow)- 2:59
"You Are the Ones (Interlude)" (3T) - 1:51
"Dancing Machine [Remix]" - 3:43

Other songs done in the film but not put on the track:

"Climb Every Mountain"
"Money (That's What I Want)"
"Baby I Need Your Loving"
"Where Did Our Love Go"
"Beans, Beans, the Musical Fruit"
"Beat It"

See also[edit]


The Jackson Family portal



Man in the Mirror: The Michael Jackson Story

References[edit]



^ Zuckerman, Faye B. (November 14, 1992). "Highlights". The Tuscaloosa News. p. 6A. Retrieved 2010-03-01. 
^ "Motown's Gordy On Discovering Jackson". CBS News. 
^ "ABC posts third straight ratings win". The Modesto Bee. November 19, 1992. p. F5. Retrieved 2010-03-01. [dead link]
^ a b Carmody, John (November 20, 1992). "THE TV COLUMN". The Washington Post. p. c.06. Retrieved 2010-03-01. 
^ a b "ABC's 'The Jacksons' finales holds top spot". Daily News. November 27, 1992. p. 3. Retrieved 2010-03-01. 
^ Grahnke, Lon (November 27, 1992). "Highlights". Chicago Sun-Times. p. 6A. Retrieved 2010-03-01. 



External links[edit]

The Jacksons: An American Dream at AllMovie
The Jacksons: An American Dream on IMDb







v
t
e


Michael Jackson






Albums
Singles
Songs
Videography
Unreleased songs
Awards
Records and achievements





Studio albums



Got to Be There
Ben
Music & Me
Forever, Michael
Off the Wall
Thriller
Bad
Dangerous
HIStory: Past, Present and Future, Book I
Invincible





Posthumous albums



Michael
Xscape





Soundtracks



The Wiz
E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial
Michael Jackson's This Is It
Immortal





Remix albums



The Original Soul of Michael Jackson
Blood on the Dance Floor: HIStory in the Mix
The Stripped Mixes
The Remix Suite





Compilations



The Best of Michael Jackson
One Day in Your Life
The Michael Jackson Mix
20th Century Masters – The Millennium Collection: The Best of Michael Jackson
Greatest Hits: HIStory, Volume I
Number Ones
The Essential Michael Jackson
King of Pop
The Definitive Collection
Icon
Scream





Box sets



Anthology
The Ultimate Collection
Visionary: The Video Singles
Thriller 25: Limited Japanese Single Collection
50 Best Songs – The Motown Years: Michael Jackson & The Jackson 5
The Collection
Hello World: The Motown Solo Collection
The Indispensable Collection
The Ultimate Fan Extras Collection





Other albums



Farewell My Summer Love
Looking Back to Yesterday
Thriller 25
Bad 25





Concert tours



Bad
Dangerous World Tour
HIStory World Tour
This Is It





Filmography



Michael Jackson's Thriller
Captain EO
Moonwalker
Michael Jackson's Ghosts
Miss Cast Away and the Island Girls
Michael Jackson's This Is It
Michael Jackson: The Life of an Icon
Bad 25
Michael Jackson: The Last Photo Shoot
Michael Jackson's Journey from Motown to Off the Wall





Video albums



Dangerous: The Short Films
Video Greatest Hits – HIStory
HIStory on Film, Volume II
Number Ones
The One
Live in Bucharest: The Dangerous Tour
Michael Jackson's Vision
Live at Wembley July 16, 1988





Television



Man in the Mirror: The Michael Jackson Story
Move Like Michael Jackson
"Stark Raving Dad" (The Simpsons episode)





Video games



Michael Jackson's Moonwalker
Sonic the Hedgehog 3
Space Channel 5
Ready 2 Rumble Boxing: Round 2
Space Channel 5: Part 2
Michael Jackson: The Experience
Planet Michael





Bibliography



Moonwalk
Dancing the Dream





Specials



Motown 25: Yesterday, Today, Forever
MJ & Friends
Michael Jackson: 30th Anniversary Celebration
United We Stand: What More Can I Give
Live at the Apollo
Michael Forever – The Tribute Concert





Assets



Neverland Ranch
Northern Songs
Sony/ATV Music Publishing (formerly)





Influence on society



Heal the World Foundation
Thrill the World
Thriller viral video
Thriller – Live
Michael Jackson: The Immortal World Tour
Michael Jackson: One





Related



The Jackson 5
Moonwalk
Health and appearance
Personal relationships
1993 child sexual abuse accusations
Living with Michael Jackson
People v. Jackson
Death
Trial of personal physician
Memorial service
Cover versions
Thriller jacket
HIStory statue
Michael Jackson-related games
Quincy Jones
Kenny Ortega
Slash
Mesoparapylocheles
Bubbles
Michael Jackson Video Vanguard Award
We Are the World
Mind Is the Magic: Anthem for the Las Vegas Show
Never Can Say Goodbye: The Music of Michael Jackson
Queen Forever
Michael Forever – The Tribute Concert





Relatives



Katherine Esther Scruse (mother)
Joseph Walter Jackson (father)
Maureen Reillette Brown (elder sister)
Sigmund Esco Jackson (elder brother)
Toriano Adaryll Jackson (elder brother)
Jermaine La Juane Jackson (elder brother)
La Toya Yvonne Jackson (elder sister)
Marlon David Jackson (elder brother)
Steven Randall Jackson (younger brother)
Janet Damita Jo Jackson (younger sister)
Nathaniel Austin Brown (nephew)
Tito Joe Jackson (nephew)
Lisa Marie Presley (ex-wife)
Deborah Jeanne Rowe (ex-wife)
Paris-Michael Katherine Jackson (daughter)








 Book
 Category
 Portal












v
t
e


The Jackson 5/The Jacksons






Jackie Jackson
Tito Jackson
Jermaine Jackson
Marlon Jackson
Michael Jackson
Randy Jackson





Studio albums




The Jackson 5



Diana Ross Presents The Jackson 5
ABC
Third Album
Jackson 5 Christmas Album
Maybe Tomorrow
Goin' Back to Indiana
Lookin' Through the Windows
Skywriter
G.I.T.: Get It Together
Dancing Machine
Moving Violation





The Jacksons



The Jacksons
Goin' Places
Destiny
Triumph
Victory
2300 Jackson Street








Live albums



The Jackson 5 in Japan
The Jacksons Live!
Live at the Forum





Compilations



Greatest Hits
Anthology
Joyful Jukebox Music
Boogie
Soulsation!
Jackson 5: The Ultimate Collection
The Essential Jacksons
The Very Best of The Jacksons
I Want You Back! Unreleased Masters
Come and Get It: The Rare Pearls





Concert tours



First National Tour
Second National Tour
Destiny World Tour
Triumph Tour
Victory Tour
Unity Tour





Television



The Jackson 5ive
The Jacksons
The Jacksons: An American Dream
The Jacksons: A Family Dynasty





Specials



Motown 25: Yesterday, Today, Forever
Michael Jackson: 30th Anniversary Special





Related articles



Discography
Songs
Chronology
Jackson family
Steeltown Records








 Book
 Category
 Portal












v
t
e


Jackson family



Parents



Joseph Walter Jackson: 1928
Katherine Esther Jackson (neé Scruse): 1930





Children



Maureen Reillette (Rebbie): 1950
Sigmund Esco (Jackie): 1951
Toriano Adaryll (Tito): 1953
Jermaine La Jaune: 1954
La Toya Yvonne: 1956
Marlon David: 1957
Michael Joseph: 1958–2009
Steven Randall (Randy): 1961
Janet Damita Jo: 1966





Grandchildren



TJ Jackson: 1978
Austin Brown: 1985
Paris Jackson: 1998





Musical groups



The Jackson 5/The Jacksons
3T





Television



The Jacksons
The Jacksons: An American Dream
The Jacksons: A Family Dynasty
The Jacksons: Next Generation






 Portal








 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=The_Jacksons:_An_American_Dream&oldid=806923587"					
Categories: Jackson family (show business)The Jackson 51990s American television miniseriesEnglish-language filmsAfrican-American televisionAmerican biographical filmsAmerican filmsMotown Productions films1992 television filmsFilms set in IndianaFilms set in AlabamaFilms set in MichiganFilms set in New York (state)Films set in CaliforniaFilms set in the 1940sFilms set in the 1950sFilms set in the 1960sFilms set in the 1970sFilms set in the 1980sAmerican Broadcasting Company network showsFilms directed by Karen ArthurHidden categories: All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from October 2010Articles to be expanded from December 2015All articles to be expandedArticles using small message boxesArticles which use infobox templates with no data rowsArticles with hAudio microformatsAlbum infoboxes lacking a coverMusic infoboxes with deprecated parameters 
