Steven Caras: See Them Dance - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search








This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages)







This article is an orphan, as no other articles link to it. Please introduce links to this page from related articles; try the Find link tool for suggestions. (May 2012)









This article includes a list of references, related reading or external links, but its sources remain unclear because it lacks inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (May 2012) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)





(Learn how and when to remove this template message)



Steven Caras: See Them Dance is a public television documentary directed by Deborah Novak. It concerns the life and work of former New York City Ballet dancer, Steven Caras, who drew upon his practical experience as a dancer to become a perceptive dance photographer. Focusing on Caras' difficulties in becoming a professional dancer, the film explores the complexities of ballet and profiles the father of ballet in America, George Balanchine.



Contents


1 Synopsis
2 Interviews
3 Credits
4 References



Synopsis[edit]
Against a backdrop of the ballet world in the 1960s and 1970s, this feature-length documentary traces the life and times of dancer/photographer Steven Caras. Despite bullying at school and parental rejection at home, Caras pursued his dream of becoming a dancer and was invited by George Balanchine to join the New York City Ballet. Balanchine also took note of Caras's talent as a photographer and granted him privileged access to photograph all aspects of City Ballet's private world. Ultimately, Caras created over 100,000 images including "Last Bow" depicting Balanchine's final curtain call.
Interviews[edit]
Dancers and choreographers interviewed include Peter Martins, Jacques D'Amboise, Mia Michaels, Allegra Kent, Patricia McBride, Jean-Pierre Bonnefoux, Sean Lavery, Elizabeth Streb, Virginia Johnson, and Gary Chryst. Comments on the historical importance of Caras' photographs are provided by Terry Teachout, Sara Morthland, and Jacqueline Davis.
Credits[edit]
Produced by Witek & Novak, Inc. Directed by Deborah Novak Executive Producer, Scott Wallin, Arizona PBS Videographers - Paul Piasecki, Adam Shanker Music - Jay Flippin Editor and Technical Director - Eric Himes Art Direction and Digital Effects - Carol Delgrosso
References[edit]

Hyman, Scott (4 February 2012). "A real life Billy Elliot Story, Steven Caras: See Them Dance". The Palm Beach Post.  |access-date= requires |url= (help)
Staff members, Houston Chronicle, 27 April 2012.





This article about a documentary film about the arts is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.


v
t
e









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Steven_Caras:_See_Them_Dance&oldid=723498064"					
Categories: Public television in the United StatesDocumentary films about balletDocumentary films about photographersArts documentary film stubsHidden categories: Orphaned articles from May 2012All orphaned articlesArticles lacking in-text citations from May 2012All articles lacking in-text citationsPages using citations with accessdate and no URLAll stub articles 
