Code of Practices for Television Broadcasters - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search





Seal of Good Practice






Seal of Good Practice as it appeared in 1958


The Code of Practices for Television Broadcasters, also known as the Television Code, was a set of ethical standards adopted by the National Association of Broadcasters (NAB) for television. The code was established on December 6, 1951. Compliance with the code was indicated by the "Seal of Good Practice", displayed during closing credits on most United States television programs, and on some US TV station sign-on and sign-offs from 1952 through the early 1980s.
The code prohibited the use of profanity, the negative portrayal of family life, irreverence for God and religion, illicit sex, drunkenness and addiction, presentation of cruelty, detailed techniques of crime, the use of horror for its own sake, and the negative portrayal of law enforcement officials, among others. The code regulated how performers should dress and move to be within the "bounds of decency". Further, news reporting was to be "factual, fair and without bias" and commentary and analysis should be "clearly defined as such". Broadcasters were to make time available for religious broadcasting and were discouraged from charging religious bodies for access. Most importantly, it limited the commercial minutes per hour.[1]
In the wake of a settlement with the Justice Department, the code was suspended in 1983.[2][3][4]
A scholarly discussion titled "Self-Regulation and the Media" by Angela J. Campbell, (1999) examines media self-regulation and concludes that "Applying these five factors to digital television public interest responsibilities and privacy on the Internet, it concludes that self-regulation is not likely to be successful in these contexts." This is a well-documented report.[5]
See also[edit]

National Association of Broadcasters
Hays Code

References[edit]



^ Code of Practices for Television Broadcasters Television History - The First 75 Years
^ Associated Press. "BROADCASTERS DECIDE TO DISSOLVE THEIR RADIO-TV ADVERTISING CODES." Miami Herald, The (FL) 6 Jan. 1983, FINAL, FRONT: 19A. NewsBank. Web. 22 Feb. 2013.
^ Collins, Bill. "CHANGES ARE FEW IN TV ADS." Philadelphia Inquirer, The (PA) 24 Feb. 1983, FINAL, FEATURES TELEVISION RADIO: C08. NewsBank. Web. 22 Feb. 2013.
^ Broadcasting, Self-Regulation of - The National Association of Broadcasters Codes of Practices, Broadcast Standards and Practices, JRank Articles
^ "Archived copy" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2012-01-05. Retrieved 2012-02-14. 



External links[edit]

Text of the Code of Practices for Television Broadcasters
The Television Code - Fifth Edition, March 1959 Complete with Interpretations and Amendments. Courtesy of J. Alan Wall's TV-signoffs.com
1970s Television Code PSA - video available for download at the Internet Archive







v
t
e


Censorship



Media regulation



Books (books banned)
Films (banned films)
Internet

circumvention


Music
Post
Press
Radio
Speech and expression
Thought
Video games








Methods



Bleeping
Book burning
Broadcast delay
Burying of scholars
Censor bars
Chilling effect
Concision
Conspiracy of silence
Content-control software
Euphemism

Minced oath


Expurgation
Fogging
Gag order
Heckling
Heckler's veto
Internet police
Memory hole
National intranet
Newspaper theft
Pixelization
Prior restraint
Propaganda
Purge
Revisionism
Sanitization
Self-censorship
Speech code
Strategic lawsuit
Surveillance

computer & network
mass


Whitewashing
Word filtering
Damnatio memoriae





Contexts



Criminal
Corporate
Hate speech
Ideological
Media bias
Moralistic fallacy
Naturalistic fallacy
Politics
Propaganda model
Religious (Islamic)
Suppression of dissent
Systemic bias





By country



Censorship
Freedom of speech
Internet censorship










 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Code_of_Practices_for_Television_Broadcasters&oldid=794806922"					
Categories: Television in the United StatesTelevision terminologyCensorship of broadcasting in the United States1951 establishments in the United StatesNational Association of Broadcasters1951 documentsCodes of conduct 
