Government-access television - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search







This article does not cite any sources. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (February 2013) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)



Government-access television (GATV) is a type of specialty television channel created by government entities (generally local governments) and broadcast over cable TV systems or, in some cases, over-the-air broadcast television stations. GATV programming generally deals with public affairs, board meetings (i.e. city council, county commission, and school board), explanation of government services, and other public-service related programming such as public service announcements and longer public information films.
In the United States, laws regarding GATV are contained in the US Code, title 47, section 531 (47 U.S.C. § 531), and are enforced by the Federal Communications Commission. Since cable systems are privately owned entities (unlike broadcast television), the must-carry requirement for GATV channels is often drawn out in local franchising agreements for the municipality or county it operates in.
GATV is often associated with public-access television, such as with the term PEG channels.
See also[edit]


Law portal
Politics portal



List of public-access TV stations in the United States
Public, educational, and government access (PEG)





This article about a television station is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.


v
t
e









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Government-access_television&oldid=797152125"					
Categories: United States lawFederal Communications CommissionUnited States communications regulationBroadcast lawTelevision in the United StatesTelevision terminologyTelevision station stubsHidden categories: Articles lacking sources from February 2013All articles lacking sourcesAll stub articles 
