MovieBeam - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

MovieBeam was a video-on-demand service started by Disney, specifically its subsidiary Buena Vista Datacasting, LLC.[1][2] Movies were sent wirelessly into the subscriber's home by embedding digital data (datacasting) within local Public Broadcasting Service (PBS)[3] stations' analog TV (NTSC) broadcast to deliver the movies to a set-top box. The data was embedded using dNTSC technology licensed from Dotcast, and distributed to TV stations via National Datacast. Up to 10 new movies were delivered to the player each week. The player also contained free movie trailers, previews, and other extras.
The set-top box was sold for a one-time fee ($149.99 as of August 2007). The cost of viewing a movie varied from $1.99 for older movies in standard definition to $4.99 for newer releases in HD. Movie rentals expired 24 hours after the rental period began.
The box had high-end hardware, including HDMI, component video outputs, and coaxial (SPDIF) and optical (TosLink) digital audio outputs. The box also had USB and Ethernet ports, although these were not activated in the last release of the firmware. An HDMI or DVI connection was required to watch HD content, which was in 720p resolution.[4]
MovieBeam connected to the servers by telephone line to trigger billing of rented movies. The modem may or may not have worked with VOIP lines, depending on the quality of the connection.
Disney spun off this company in January 2006. Intel Corporation, Cisco, Disney and several venture capital firms including Intel Capital, Mayfield Fund, Norwest Venture Partners and Vantage Point Venture Partners had invested $48.5 million in MovieBeam.[5]
On March 7, 2007, Movie Gallery, Inc. acquired MovieBeam, Inc. Movie Gallery at the time stated that the expected cost of acquisition, plus operating expenses for 2007, was $10 million.
On December 5, 2007, MovieBeam began calling its customers informing them that MovieBeam would be ceasing operations on December 15, 2007,[6] and on that date MovieBeam officially shut-down service.[7]
The main reason for failure of the service to penetrate and capture a portion of the video-on-demand market was the presumption that viewers would watch those movies that the network thought they would be interested in. The dependence on precise positioning of the reception TV antenna to obtain movies was another big problem. Differences of a centimeter or two, or poor weather conditions, could cause movies to be missed being downloaded over-the-air. Cable TV and satellite TV set-top boxes now provide video-on-demand services with far better features than MovieBeam. The video quality of MovieBeam was greatly criticized by viewers due to excessive video compression, made necessary by using distribution via analog instead of digital TV (ATSC). Analog TV broadcasting was already slated to end in the United States in mid-2009 (and subsequently did so). These and other challenges sealed the fate of this much-hyped company into a flop of technology history.[8]
See also[edit]

Datacasting

UDcast


ONTV
Phonevision
SelecTV
Spectrum
SuperTV
Z Channel
Videotex

Viewdata
Prestel
Captain (videotex)
Minitel
Viewtron


Teletext

Ceefax
ORACLE (teletext)
World System Teletext
NABTS
Telidon

NAPLPS


Electra (teletext)
Antiope (teletext)


Vertical blanking interval
closed captioning
Multimedia Home Platform
MHEG-5
HbbTV
Broadcast Markup Language
Ginga (SBTVD Middleware)
Extended Data Services
Intercast
MSN TV
Guide Plus

References[edit]



^ "Disney to offer MovieBeam on-demand movie service via datacasting". TVTechnology. NewBay Media. Retrieved 18 April 2014. 
^ "Wysk Company Profile for BUENA VISTA DATACASTING, LLC". Wysk. Retrieved 18 April 2014. 
^ "[1]", PBS / National Datacast (URL accessed 26 January 2008).
^ ""Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2006-11-18. Retrieved 2006-12-30. ", MovieBeam (URL accessed 29 December 2006).
^ http://www.geek.com/news/disney-to-launch-over-the-air-on-demand-movie-service-562124/
^ "[2]", [MovieBeam Ceasing Operations] (URL accessed 5 December 2007).
^ "[3]", [On-Demand Video Service MovieBeam Closes] (URL accessed 19 December 2007). Archived December 21, 2007, at the Wayback Machine.
^ "[4]", [MovieBeam's (sort of) video on demand] (URL accessed 26 July 2008).



External links[edit]

Official site
Interview with Carl Crabill, MovieBeam VP of Sales and Marketing
Moviebeam review (part 1) review part 2
MovieBeam's (sort of) video on demand
Dotcast dNTSC tutorial (PDF)
Moviebeam ceasing operations







v
t
e


Defunct premium television services in the United States



Premium services



AMC1
Bravo1
Channel 100
Disney Channel1
Front Row (TV channel)
Festival
Galavisión1
Home Theater Network
Spotlight
Starion Premiere Cinema
Sundance Channel1


Star Channel2
Take Two (TV channel)





Adult premium



American Exxxtasy
Escapade (TV channel)
Uptown (TV channel)





Pay-per-view



Action Pay-Per-View
Cable Video Store
Drive-In Cinema
Guest Cinema
The HiLife Channel
Rendezvous (TV channel)
Request TV
Spectradyne





Sports



ESPN GamePlan
ESPN Full Court
Mega March Madness
NASCAR Hot Pass
PASS Sports





Subscription TV



Hawkvision
In-Home Theatre
MovieBeam
ONTV
Phonevision
Preview
PRISM
SCORE
SelecTV
Spectrum
Sportsvision
SuperTV
Tele1st
Telemeter
VEU
Wometco Home Theater
Z Channel






1 Indicates the channel is still in existence, but currently operates as a basic cable channel.
2 Star Channel was part of Warner Communications' QUBE interactive cable service, and was the precursor to present-day The Movie Channel.










v
t
e


Movie-oriented television services in the United States



Over-the-air
digital television



Escape
GetTV
Grit
Movies!
This TV





Cable television




Cable and satellite
television only



AMC
Chiller
Cinelatino
FX Movie Channel
HDNet Movies
Hallmark Movies & Mysteries
IFC
LMN
MGM HD
PixL
ShortsHD
Sony Movie Channel
SundanceTV
Turner Classic Movies
ViendoMovies





Premium television



HBO (Multiplex)
Cinemax (Multiplex)
Showtime (Multiplex)
The Movie Channel (Multiplex)
Flix
Starz (Multiplex)
Starz Encore (Multiplex)
MoviePlex (Multiplex)
Epix (Multiplex)








Defunct




Cable, satellite
and terrestrial TV



Documentary Channel
Fearnet
Festival
Home Theater Network
Spotlight
Star Channel
Take 2
White Springs TV





Subscription TV



MovieBeam
ONTV
Phonevision
Preview
PRISM
SelecTV
Spectrum
SuperTV
VEU
Wometco Home Theater
Z Channel















v
t
e


Additional resources on North American television



North America



List of local television stations in North America
DTV transition
North American TV mini-template





Canada



Canadian networks
List of Canadian television networks
List of Canadian television channels
List of Canadian specialty channels
Local Canadian TV stations
List of United States stations available in Canada
2001 Vancouver TV realignment
2007 Canada broadcast TV realignment





Mexico



Mexican networks
Local Mexican TV stations





United States



American networks
List of American cable and satellite networks
List of American over-the-air networks
Local American TV stations (W)
Local American TV stations (K)
Spanish-language TV networks
1994 United States broadcast TV realignment
2006 United States broadcast TV realignment
List of Canadian television stations available in the United States
Insular Areas TV











See also
U.S. premium channels
Canadian movie channels
Canadian premium channels










 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=MovieBeam&oldid=799801988"					
Categories: Video on demand services2007 disestablishmentsAmerican subscription television servicesDefunct broadcasting companies of the United StatesTelevision in the United StatesThe Walt Disney Company subsidiariesTelecommunications-related introductions in 2004Hidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links 
