TV Acres - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search








This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages)







This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (June 2012) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)









The topic of this article may not meet Wikipedia's general notability guideline. Please help to establish notability by citing reliable secondary sources that are independent of the topic and provide significant coverage of it beyond its mere trivial mention. If notability cannot be established, the article is likely to be merged, redirected, or deleted.
Find sources: "TV Acres" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (April 2011) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)





(Learn how and when to remove this template message)







TV Acres' official logo


TV Acres is a website collecting information about characters, places, and things that have appeared on American television programs broadcast from the 1940s through today.[1][2] The website and its publishing imprint, TV Acres Books, was established by Jerome Holst, a former librarian who now lives in Stockport, Ohio.[3] The website was named a "hot site" by USA Today in 2003.[4]
References[edit]



^ Charles Bowen, "TV Acres Covers the Cultural Landscape Of Our Time", Editor & Publisher, December 12, 2002.
^ Jim Bainbridge, "Google alert notifies you about any topic, product you request", The Gazette (Colorado Springs), February 13, 2005. Copy available here from HighBeam Research (subscription required).
^ Ken Lahmers, "Kaleidoscope: Evening stay in Stockport Mill town relaxing", Aurora Advocate, May 23, 2012.
^ "Hot Sites", USA Today, April 4, 2003.



External links[edit]

TV Acres





This article about a television website is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.


v
t
e









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=TV_Acres&oldid=808072977"					
Categories: Television websitesTelevision in the United StatesInternet properties established in 2001Entertainment website stubsTelevision stubsHidden categories: Articles needing additional references from June 2012All articles needing additional referencesArticles with topics of unclear notability from April 2011All articles with topics of unclear notabilityAll stub articles 
