EUE/Screen Gems - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

This article is about EUE/Screen Gems Ltd. and EUE/Screen Gems Studios. For the animation/television/feature film production company, see Screen Gems.






This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (December 2007) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)




EUE/Screen Gems Ltd.


Type

Private


Industry
Filmmaking


Founded
1965


Headquarters
New York, New York, US



Key people

George Cooney (CEO)



Number of employees

100 (2011)


Website
EUEScreenGems.com


EUE/Screen Gems Ltd. is an American film and television studio production company that owns and operates facilities in Wilmington, North Carolina, Atlanta, Georgia, Miami, Florida and New York City. The company collaborates with other studios and producers for the development, production, marketing and distribution of entertainment for feature film, television, and digital content.
History[edit]
In 1965, Columbia Pictures acquired a fifty percent interest in the New York-based commercial production company EUE (Elliot, Unger and Elliot); Mike Elliot and brother Steve Elliot directed while William Unger handled the business end. The commercial company was incorporated into Screen Gems (the then television production division of Columbia Pictures) and renamed it "EUE/Screen Gems".
In 1982, Columbia Pictures was sold to Coca-Cola. At that time EUE/Screen Gems and the New York production facility were sold to longtime Columbia Pictures executive, George Cooney.
In 1984, producer Dino De Laurentiis purchased a studio facility in Wilmington. It operated under the name DEG (De Laurentiis Entertainment Group), until 1990 when it was purchased by Carolco Pictures.
In 1996, EUE/Screen Gems would acquire the Wilmington Studios from Carolco (which entered bankruptcy proceedings) and renamed it EUE/Screen Gems Studios. In May 2009 EUE/Screen Gems Studios opened a 10th "Dream Stage" in Wilmington. The studio is a 37,500-square-foot (3,480 m2) columnless structure with a 50x50x6 foot 90,000 gallon special effects water tank.
In 2010, EUE/Screen Gems signed a 50-year lease with the City of Atlanta, Georgia to use the historic Lakewood Fairgrounds as a film and TV production studio.[1] In addition to refurbishing and using the historic structures already on the property, the company has built a 37,500-square-foot (3,480 m2) sound stage. A number of television series, films and commercials have already been filmed, or are currently filmed, at the new studio.
In 2015, EUE/Screen Gems opened the Viacom International Studios in Miami, Florida.
Notes[edit]

The CW Television Network show One Tree Hill and The WB's Dawson's Creek and over 300 films, commercials and television projects have been shot at the Wilmington studios. Other productions produced in Wilmington include CBS's Under the Dome, HBO's Eastbound and Down, and the Fox Network's Sleepy Hollow; plus 2013 box office #1 films Iron Man 3 and The Conjuring, and We're the Millers.
Rachael Ray (TV series) is produced for Harpo Productions and distributed by CBS Television Distribution at the New York facility which has also hosted hundreds of productions since 1965.
Brandon Lee was killed at the Wilmington studios following a firearms malfunction during filming for The Crow.

References[edit]



^ http://www.therealestatebloggers.com/housing-general/lakewood-fairgrounds-in-atlanta-gets-lease-deal-for-movie-studio-with-euescreen-gems/







 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=EUE/Screen_Gems&oldid=796645863"					
Categories: American film studiosTelevision studios in the United StatesEntertainment companies established in 1965Companies based in New York CityCompanies based in Wilmington, North CarolinaHidden categories: Articles needing additional references from December 2007All articles needing additional references 
