Manhattan Center - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search





Winter afternoon


The Manhattan Center building, built in 1906 and located at 311 West 34th Street in Midtown Manhattan, houses Manhattan Center Studios (home to two recording studios), its Grand Ballroom, and the Hammerstein Ballroom, one of New York City's most renowned performance venues. In 1976, the building was purchased by its current owner, the Unification Church for $3 million.[1]



Contents


1 History
2 Events
3 References
4 External links



History[edit]
The Manhattan Center was originally called the Manhattan Opera House and was built in 1906 by Oscar Hammerstein I. Hammerstein boldly sought to compete with the established Metropolitan Opera by offering grand opera to the New York public at lower ticket prices and with a superior orchestra and stage productions. Rapidly, it received critical acclaim[2] and became a popular alternative to the Met, and many great operas and celebrated singers debuted at the new theater.
In 1910, after the Metropolitan Opera felt it could no longer tolerate the competition, it offered Hammerstein $1.2 million to cease producing opera for a period of 10 years. He accepted the offer and experimented with various other types of entertainment before ultimately selling the building. In March 1911, it was opened as a "combination" house by the Shubert brothers featuring vaudeville shows during the week and concerts on Sunday nights at affordable prices.
In 1922, the Manhattan Opera House was purchased by the Ancient Accepted Scottish Rite of Free Masonry, who built a new building façade and a new Grand Ballroom on the seventh floor. In 1926, Warner Bros rented the ballroom to set up a studio for the Vitaphone sound-on-disc system to record the New York Philharmonic orchestra for the film Don Juan. That film marked the release of the inaugural commercial film featuring a recorded musical soundtrack.
By 1939, the name of the building had been changed to the Manhattan Center, now a multi purpose venue featuring a variety of different types of events. In 1986, Manhattan Center Studios was formed to develop the center into a venue with the capability of holding multimedia festivities. MCS expanded the audio recording facilities when Studio 4 was opened in 1993. Studio 7 was rebuilt in 1996 to become a state-of-the-art control room capable of servicing all types of recordings and live events in the ballrooms.
In March 1990, the company began investing in video equipment and studio facilities to expand into the video and television industry. The company’s video post production facilities in Studio 9 were completed in 1993 and in the years that followed, two fully equipped television studios were built. Studio 1 was completed in 1994 and Studio 6 was completed in 1995. The connection of the studios to the Ballrooms makes them attractive venues for live broadcast events and webcasts. Studio 1 and Studio 6 were temporarily closed throughout the Spring and Summer of 2003 to complete extensive upgrades as the company entered into a three-year contract with Atlantic Video, a Washington, D.C. based television services and production company.
Beginning in 1997, the Hammerstein Ballroom underwent a major renovation and reopened as a concert hall for popular musical acts.
Events[edit]
The Manhattan Center became a hot spot for "big band" dances as well as trade shows, union meetings and other social functions.
Among the diverse events held here throughout the decades that followed were radio broadcasts, recordings and performances by such acts as Bunny Berigan, Paul Robeson, Judy Garland, Harry Belafonte, Perry Como, Leonard Bernstein, David Bowie, Grateful Dead, Bob Marley, Evanescence, and Alison Moyet, among others.
In the 1990s, WWF Monday Night Raw broadcast from the Grand Ballroom a record 28 times, including the first-ever episode of Monday Night Raw on January 11, 1993, which was broadcast live on the USA Network. The last broadcast from the Grand Ballroom occurred on February 24, 1997. Raw will return to the Manhattan Center for the first time in nearly 21 years on January 22, 2018 for it's 25th Anniversary episode. It will be a televised simulcast between the Grand Ballroom and the Barclays Center.
Its Hammerstein Ballroom has hosted Extreme Championship Wrestling events in the years before its closing and in its revivals in 2005 and 2006. Since 2006, the Manhattan Center has played host to yearly Ring of Honor events, both in the Grand Ballroom and the Hammerstein Ballroom. In 2014, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling taped multiple episodes of their Impact Wrestling TV program at the Grand Ballroom on June 25–27, and then again August 5–7.
Several seasons of NBC's America's Got Talent were taped there.
The Manhattan Center was home to Al Jazeera America's main studio and production facilities.[3]
The Manhattan Center is also the current home of Hillsong NYC, with weekly church gatherings happening every Sunday.
References[edit]



^ Biermans, J. 1986, The Odyssey of New Religious Movements, Persecution, Struggle, Legitimation: A Case Study of the Unification Church Lewiston, New York and Queenston, Ontario: The Edwin Melton Press ISBN 0-88946-710-2
^ E.g. Richard Aldrich, "A New Opera House Worthy of Support", New York Times, 30 Dec 1906, p. 31.
^ "Manhattan Center Announces Al Jazeera America as Its Newest Television Studio Client". www.businesswire.com. August 20, 2013. Retrieved 2017-11-18. 



External links[edit]

Manhattan Center | EVENTS · PERFORMANCE · PRODUCTION
Manhattan Center Studios | Audio Dept. | Recording Studios
Manhattan Center Studios | History
Manhattan Center Studios | MCStudios







v
t
e


Family Federation for World Peace and Unification



Doctrines and ceremonies



Divine Principle
Blessing ceremony of the Unification Church
Unification Church and Islam
Unification Church and Judaism
Unification Church and mainstream Christianity
Unification Church and science
Unification Church funeral
Unification Church view of Jesus
Unification Church views on sexuality





Organizations and projects



Chungnam Ilhwa Chunma
Clube Atlético Sorocaba
Clube Esportivo Nova Esperança
Inchon
Insight magazine
International Conference on the Unity of the Sciences
Japan–Korea Undersea Tunnel
Little Angels Children's Folk Ballet of Korea
Manhattan Center
News World Communications
Nicaragua Was Our Home
Peace Cup
Pyeonghwa Motors
Seongnam Ilhwa Chunma
Service For Peace
Sun Moon University
Tongil Group
Unification Theological Seminary
United Press International
Universal Ballet
The Washington Times
Women's Federation for World Peace
World Scripture
Wyndham New Yorker Hotel





Founder and family



Sun Myung Moon
Hak Ja Han
Heung Jin Moon
Hyung Jin Moon
Moon Kook-jin
Julia Moon





Members



Ek Nath Dhakal
Mose Durst
David Eaton
Dan Fefferman
Pat Hickey
Dong Moon Joo
Young Oon Kim
Bo Hi Pak
Junko Sakurada
Neil Albert Salonen
Lee Shapiro
Josette Sheeran
Kevin Thompson
Jonathan Wells
Andrew Wilson





History and controversy



"Crazy for God"
Danny K. Davis
"Heavenly deception"
"Love bombing"
Emmanuel Milingo
Million Family March
"Moonie (nickname)"
Richard Rubenstein
Ryoichi Sasakawa
Carlton Sherwood
Subcommittee on International Organizations of the Committee on International Relations
Unification Church and North Korea
Unification Church business activities
Unification Church of the United States
Unification Church political activities
United States v. Sun Myung Moon





Books



As a Peace-Loving Global Citizen
Doomsday Cult: A Study of Conversion, Proselytization, and Maintenance of Faith
Gifts of Deceit
Inquisition: The Persecution and Prosecution of the Reverend Sun Myung Moon
The Making of a Moonie
Sun Myung Moon and the Unification Church





Timeline and lists



Affiliated organizations
People
Timeline






Coordinates: 40°45′10″N 73°59′39″W﻿ / ﻿40.752908°N 73.994189°W﻿ / 40.752908; -73.994189




 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Manhattan_Center&oldid=810955030"					
Categories: 1906 establishments in New York (state)Hell's Kitchen, ManhattanMusic venues in New York CityOpera houses in New York CityProfessional wrestling venues in the United StatesRecording studios in ManhattanSports venues in ManhattanTelevision studios in the United StatesUnification Church and the artsUnification Church propertiesTheatres completed in 1906Music venues completed in 1906Midtown ManhattanHidden categories: Coordinates on Wikidata 
