Silvercup Studios - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search







This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (June 2008) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)




Silvercup Studios


Type

Studio


Industry
Entertainment


Founded
Queens, New York, U.S. (1983)


Founders
Stuart Suna
Alan Suna


Headquarters
Queens, New York, United States


Products
Motion pictures, television programs


Website
Silvercup Studios' Website






Main building






Street entrance


Silvercup Studios is the largest film and television production facility in New York City. Located in the neighborhood of Long Island City in the borough of Queens, and the Port Morris neighborhood of the Bronx. The studio complex has been operating since 1983 in the former Silvercup Bakery building. It is owned and operated by brothers Alan and Stuart Suna.



Contents


1 History
2 Productions
3 As a location
4 References
5 External links



History[edit]
During its early years the facility was used mostly for the filming of music videos and commercials, although occasionally scenes for motion pictures were shot there, including Highlander and Garbo Talks. Norman Leigh, well known among New York City filmmakers for his electrical/gaffing work on the 1969 film Midnight Cowboy, oversaw the studio during its first few years.
Over the years, use of the studio's space has shifted toward the production of television series.
Productions[edit]
Silvercup was the primary shooting facility for ABC's Hope & Faith, and HBO's Sex and the City and The Sopranos. Other film and television productions that have made use of the studio include:


30 Rock
Analyze That
Big Daddy
Big Lake
Birth
Black Rain
Dark Water
The Devil Wears Prada
Elementary
Gangs of New York
Fringe
Garbo Talks
Gossip Girl
Hide and Seek
Highlander
The Impostors
Jonny Zero
Julie & Julia
Just My Luck
Krush Groove
Little Children
Little Nicky
Mad Men
Meet the Parents
Mickey Blue Eyes
The Michael J. Fox Show
The Mysteries of Laura
No Reservations
Person of Interest
Private Parts
Quantico
Righteous Kill
The Savages
Sex and the City
Two Weeks Notice
The Sopranos
Ugly Betty
Uptown Girls
What Happens in Vegas
White Collar


As a location[edit]
The building also serves as a location for magazine photo shoots and music video productions. In Spring 2011, the alternative rock band Just Visiting's "Life In A Shoebox" music video featured the band playing on the Silvercup rooftop, and had a shot of the iconic sign. In Fall 2007, an American Express TV commercial starring Tina Fey featured shots of the outside and inside of the studio.
The facility can be seen from the New York City Subway's 7, <7>​​, N, and ​W trains west of the Queensboro Plaza station, and is also visible from the Queensboro Bridge to and from Manhattan. It is also the location of part of the final battle in Highlander, with the character "The Kurgan" destroying the iconic sign during the battle.
Shots taped at the foot of the rear of the sign appeared in WNBC-TV's 1992 "Four New York" image campaign.[1]
Silvercup has a second studio complex, also in Long Island City.[2] and opened a third location in the Bronx in 2016.[3]
References[edit]



^ Edd Kalehoff "WNBC 4ny Winter Promo" on YouTube
^ "New York-Based Television Programs". Backstage: Ross Reports: Television and Film. backstage.com. 2006-08-24. Archived from the original on September 30, 2007. Retrieved 2008-06-23. 
^ https://www.bizjournals.com/newyork/news/2016/08/17/silvercup-studios-opens-new-bronx-facility.html



External links[edit]

Silvercup Studios' web site

Coordinates: 40°45′4″N 73°56′38″W﻿ / ﻿40.75111°N 73.94389°W﻿ / 40.75111; -73.94389




 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Silvercup_Studios&oldid=805164067"					
Categories: Film production companies of the United StatesAmerican film studiosTelevision studios in the United StatesLong Island CityBuildings and structures in Queens, New YorkEntertainment companies based in New York CityEntertainment companies established in 19831983 establishments in New York (state)Hidden categories: Articles needing additional references from June 2008All articles needing additional referencesPages using New York City Subway service templatesCoordinates not on Wikidata 
