Stu Segall Productions - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search







This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (May 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)




Stu Segall Productions


Type

Private


Genre
Studio


Founded
1991


Founder
Stu Segall


Headquarters
San Diego, California, USA


Website
www.stusegall.com


Stu Segall Productions is a 70,000-square-foot (6,500 m2) studio facility located in San Diego, California.
Filmings[edit]
The studio is used primarily for filming television series and movies in the San Diego area. Television shows shot in the studio or on location in San Diego include Veronica Mars, Silk Stalkings, Pensacola: Wings of Gold, Renegade, Push and all six MyNetworkTV limited-run serials. Feature films include Flying By, Hairy Tale, Raven, Fast Money, Illegal in Blue, and Dead On. Television films include The Dark, Surrender Dorothy, See Arnold Run, Tiger Cruise, and I Married a Monster.
The studio was built in 1991 and is sometimes referred to as Stu Segall Studios. Part of the facility is used for police and military training exercises under the operating name of Strategic Operations or STOPS.[1] In addition, a satellite facility is located in North Hollywood, Los Angeles.
References[edit]



^ http://www.strategic-operations.com/



External links[edit]

Official site
Modest mogul:
KNSD: Marine Sues Local Studio Over Injury: Incident Occurred During Filming At Miramar
KGTV: Marine suing producer of training exercise






This article about a media company is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.


v
t
e









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Stu_Segall_Productions&oldid=812309793"					
Categories: Television studios in the United StatesCompanies based in San DiegoPrivately held companies based in California1991 establishments in CaliforniaAmerican companies established in 1991Television production companies of the United StatesMedia company stubsHidden categories: Articles needing additional references from May 2016All articles needing additional referencesAll stub articles 
