Times Square Studios - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

This article is about the Disney Company's production facilities. For the daytime division of the Disney-ABC Television Group, see Times Square Studios (division).
Not to be confused with MTV's studios across the street at One Astor Plaza.






This article includes a list of references, related reading or external links, but its sources remain unclear because it lacks inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (December 2009) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)





Times Square Studios



The logo of Times Square Studios (since an unknown date).



Alternative names
TSSL


General information


Location
Manhattan, New York City


Address
1500 Broadway


Current tenants
-Good Morning America
Assorted other ABC News and ESPN programs (see article for others)


Inaugurated
1999


Owner
The Walt Disney Company


Times Square Studios (TSS) is an American television studio owned by The Walt Disney Company, located on the southeastern corner of West 44th Street and Broadway in the Times Square area of the borough of Manhattan. The studio is best known as the production home of ABC News' Good Morning America (GMA), a morning news and talk program, segments for other ABC News programs, and various programs on ESPN.



Contents


1 Background
2 Productions at Times Square Studios
3 Previous productions at Times Square Studios
4 References



Background[edit]




Studio exterior 3 years after 2007 refurbishment, January 2010


Times Square Studios is on the site of the former Hotel Claridge, built in 1911. In 1972, the hotel was demolished and the current structure, which housed the National Theater,[1] and a Beefsteak Charlie's restaurant, was built. The theater closed in 1998.
The studio was designed by Walt Disney Imagineering, Disney's design and development arm. The original concept for the studio was conceived by Harry Grossman.[clarification needed] His plan called for the studio to broadcast many shows twenty-four hours a day for both Disney-owned and non-Disney programs.
The building's outer facade consists of over nine LED ribbons of lights. The 8th LED ribbon of lights from the top is used as a ticker for ABC News, while the 9th is a sports ticker for ESPN. Also on the facade is a large TV display made by Mitsubishi - Diamond Vision, though the display is sponsored by Siemens, which has their logo below the display. This screen mainly broadcasts the late SportsCenter, along with WABC-TV and ABC News newscasts during non-GMA hours, along with high-profile sports events, series and films on the ABC and ESPN family of networks for both the convenience of Times Square visitors and to provide a simple venue for crowd photo ops for those high-profile events.
The studio is primarily used for productions of ABC News and ESPN. It has also been used regularly to produce programming for other shows not broadcast by a Disney-owned network (such as special week-long New York weeks for international morning programs) including shows for the Australia Network, BBC World News, Discovery Channel, and HBO.
Productions at Times Square Studios[edit]




Exterior (looking east from Broadway) of the Times Square Studios (April 2004).



Good Morning America and Good Afternoon America — ABC News' morning program and its temporary summer 2012 afternoon counterpart
Dick Clark's New Year's Rockin' Eve (Times Square segments) — ABC's New Year's Eve telecast
ABC Vote '08: Election Night — ABC News' coverage of the 2008 U.S. presidential election
ABC 2000: The Vote — ABC News' coverage of the 2000 U.S. presidential election
ABC 2000 Today — ABC News' coverage of the turn of the millennium from December 31, 1999, into January 1, 2000
ABC & ESPN — National Basketball Association (NBA) pre-game and half-time updates
ABC Your Voice, Your Vote '12: Election Night — ABC News' coverage of the 2012 U.S. presidential election
ABC Your Voice, Your Vote '14: Election Night - ABC News' coverage of the 2014 U.S. midterm election
Hand in Hand: A Benefit for Hurricane Relief, 2017 (New York portions)

Previous productions at Times Square Studios[edit]

20/20 — an ABC News television-newsmagazine program
Primetime — an ABC News television-newsmagazine program
Good Morning America Weekend — The weekend version of GMA; outside of special events, the program is recorded at ABC News's main studio at the ABC Television Center in the Lincoln Square neighborhood of Manhattan; a Times Square backdrop is projected onto the set's rear-projection screen for continuity purposes
Olbermann — ESPN2
Nightline — ABC News' late-night news program, moved to ABC Television Center in 2012

References[edit]



^ http://cinematreasures.org/theaters/1853




Coordinates: 40°45′25″N 73°59′08″W﻿ / ﻿40.75694°N 73.98556°W﻿ / 40.75694; -73.98556






v
t
e


The Walt Disney Company






Company timeline
Retlaw Enterprises
Criticism





Company
officials




Founders



Walter Elias Disney
Roy Oliver Disney





Executives



Bob Iger (CEO)
Alan N. Braverman (SEVP/GC)
Christine McCarthy (CFO)





Board of directors



Susan Arnold
John S. Chen
Jack Dorsey
Bob Iger (Chairman)
Fred Langhammer
Aylwin Lewis
Monica C. Lozano
Robert Matschullat
Mark Parker
Sheryl Sandberg
Orin C. Smith (Independent Lead)








Walt Disney Studios



Walt Disney Animation Studios
Walt Disney Pictures
Distribution

Touchstone Pictures


Disney Music Group
Disney Theatrical Group
Disneynature
Home Entertainment
Lucasfilm
Marvel Studios
Pixar





Media Networks



Disney–ABC TV Group

ABC Entertainment Group
ABC TV Stations
Disney Channel
Hulu


ESPN (80%)
A&E Networks (50%)
BAMTech (75%)





Parks and Resorts



Adventures by Disney
Disney Cruise Line
Walt Disney Imagineering
Disneyland Resort
Disney Regional Entertainment
Disney Vacation Club
Disneyland Paris
Walt Disney World Resort
Hong Kong Disneyland Resort
Shanghai Disney Resort





DCPI



Disney Consumer Products

Disney Store


Disney Publishing Worldwide

Disney English


The Muppets Studio




Disney Interactive



Babble
Disney Mobile
Disney Online
Maker Studios








International



Argentina
CIS
France
India

UTV Software Communications


Italy
Latin America





Other assets



Buena Vista
Marvel Entertainment
Reedy Creek Energy










 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Times_Square_Studios&oldid=800438429"					
Categories: Recording studios in ManhattanTelevision studios in the United StatesTimes SquareAmerican Broadcasting CompanyDisney production studiosEntertainment companies based in New York CityBuildings and structures completed in 1999Hidden categories: Articles lacking in-text citations from December 2009All articles lacking in-text citationsWikipedia articles needing clarification from December 2009Coordinates on Wikidata 
