Home Theater Network - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search







This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (December 2012) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)





Home Theater Network





Launched
September 1, 1978; 39 years ago (1978-09-01)


Closed
January 31, 1987; 30 years ago (1987-01-31)


Owned by
Group W Satellite Communications


Picture format
480i (SDTV)


Country
United States


Language
English


Broadcast area
Nationwide


Replaced by
Travel Channel


Home Theater Network (HTN) was an American premium cable television network that was owned by Group W Satellite Communications. Targeted at a family audience, the channel focused primarily on theatrically released motion pictures, along with travel interstitials that aired between select films.
History[edit]
Home Theater Network launched on September 1, 1978. The service operated initially for four hours a day, and later expanded its schedule to 12 hours a day; HTN was notable for airing non-exclusive G and PG-rated films (prior to 1984, when the PG-13 rating was first introduced by the Motion Picture Association of America). The channel boasted a policy of not running R-rated feature films (predating the launch of family-oriented multiplex services by HBO and Showtime that also omitted R-rated films from their schedules), and marketed itself as a lower-priced alternative to HBO, Cinemax, Showtime (which Group W later owned in part, making HTN a de facto sister network to Showtime from 1982, when it acquired TelePrompTer Corporation, to 1983) and The Movie Channel.
Prior to The Disney Channel's April 1983 launch, Walt Disney Pictures licensed select live-action films to many premium cable networks (including HBO, Showtime and Spotlight); as a result, HTN featured Disney fare such as Freaky Friday, Snowball Express, Pete's Dragon, Bedknobs and Broomsticks and The North Avenue Irregulars. Other films that HTN featured included Xanadu and The Private Eyes. In addition, the channel showcased travel-related programming as filler between films, billing these segments as "The Travel Channel".
From 1984 to 1985, Home Theater Network aired a live 90-minute call-in trivia program called Movie Talk America, in a Thursday primetime timeslot that was typically used to broadcast feature films. Hosted by Earle Ziff, the popular program would feature live calls from viewers as they competed for various prizes, as well as celebrity interviews and promotions for upcoming programs to be seen on HTN.
In October 1986, Group W Satellite Communications announced that it would shut down the network, citing a lack of subscriber growth despite a positive cash flow. Home Theater Network shut down on January 31, 1987, and Group W sold the transponder slot on Satcom 3-R and the "Travel Channel" name to Trans World Airlines to launch the present-day basic cable channel now known as the Travel Channel.[1]
See also[edit]

HBO
Cinemax
Showtime
The Movie Channel
Spotlight

References[edit]



^ "Broadcasting Magazine" (PDF). October 27, 1986. Retrieved 6 March 2011. 









v
t
e


Defunct premium television services in the United States



Premium services



AMC1
Bravo1
Channel 100
Disney Channel1
Front Row (TV channel)
Festival
Galavisión1
Home Theater Network
Spotlight
Starion Premiere Cinema
Sundance Channel1


Star Channel2
Take Two (TV channel)





Adult premium



American Exxxtasy
Escapade (TV channel)
Uptown (TV channel)





Pay-per-view



Action Pay-Per-View
Cable Video Store
Drive-In Cinema
Guest Cinema
The HiLife Channel
Rendezvous (TV channel)
Request TV
Spectradyne





Sports



ESPN GamePlan
ESPN Full Court
Mega March Madness
NASCAR Hot Pass
PASS Sports





Subscription TV



Hawkvision
In-Home Theatre
MovieBeam
ONTV
Phonevision
Preview
PRISM
SCORE
SelecTV
Spectrum
Sportsvision
SuperTV
Tele1st
Telemeter
VEU
Wometco Home Theater
Z Channel






1 Indicates the channel is still in existence, but currently operates as a basic cable channel.
2 Star Channel was part of Warner Communications' QUBE interactive cable service, and was the precursor to present-day The Movie Channel.







This article about television in the United States is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.


v
t
e









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Home_Theater_Network&oldid=809065795"					
Categories: United States television stubsDefunct American television networksTelevision channels and stations established in 1978Television channels and stations disestablished in 1987Commercial-free television networksMovie channelsWestinghouse BroadcastingHidden categories: Articles needing additional references from December 2012All articles needing additional referencesAll stub articles 
