Television Critics Association - Wikipedia


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

The Television Critics Association (TCA) is a group of approximately 200 United States and Canadian journalists and columnists who cover television programming. They meet at The Langham Huntington in Pasadena, California in January for the winter press tour, and at the Beverly Hilton in Beverly Hills in July for the summer press tour. Winter press tour usually covers network midseason replacements and cable series which start in January, while the summer tour covers the new fall season for both broadcast and cable programming.



Contents


1 Press tours
2 TCA Awards
3 References
4 External source



Press tours[edit]
The tour allows the major television networks, cable networks, online streaming services and PBS to present their slate of upcoming programs to a large group of press writers from different outlets all at once through panels and interviews. These biannual conferences involve registered TCA members staying at a chosen Los Angeles venue for two to three weeks, and each network is assigned a series of days to showcase their programming. In the past, these interviews with program casts were mainly used to compile stories over a six-month period which could be posted over that period as columns or within their weekly television listings supplements, mainly in newspapers or magazines for critics and columnists outside of large metropolitan areas. However, with the rise of the Internet and social media, these sessions now function to build buzz for programming and only a few columnists maintain the former format of story release [1].
The January 2008 Press Tour was canceled in December 2007 as a direct result of the 2007-08 Writers Guild of America strike.[2]
TCA Awards[edit]
Main article: TCA Awards
The organization sponsors the TCA Awards, honoring television excellence in 11 categories, which are presented every summer.
References[edit]



^ Sepinwall, Alan (1 January 2017). "The Changing Shape Of TCA Press Tour In The Age Of Twitter And Peak TV". Uproxx. Retrieved 13 November 2017. 
^ "January 2008 TCA Press Tour Cancelled" – TVCritics.org



External source[edit]

Official website ~ TVcritics.org
TCA Awards page ~ TVcritics.org




This article about television in Canada is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.


v
t
e








This article about television in the United States is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.


v
t
e







This television award-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.


v
t
e









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Television_Critics_Association&oldid=810205375"					
Categories: Entertainment industry societiesTelevision awardsTelevision organizations in the United StatesTelevision organizations in CanadaCanadian television stubsUnited States television stubsTelevision award stubsHidden categories: All stub articles 
